This is Jocco podcast number 11 with echo Charles and me jocco willink good evening echo
So
Almost two years ago
I had a guy on the podcast by the name of
Jodie Middick and we ended up talking
For so long that we actually turned one podcast into two podcasts the first one was a review of his book
Which had just come out was called unflinching the making of a Canadian sniper
And then we did a second podcast right after that that was just us talking and discussing some more of the details
Of where had his life had gone since that book had come out and
And those podcasts are
Number 24 and number 25 and if you haven't listened to those yet just stop here go back and listen to them first
And in those podcasts
We discussed jodies early life and how he ended up in the military and his sniper training in his two deployments to Afghanistan and
The events of January 11th
2007 when during an operation
He
it'll land mine and
Lost both of his legs below the knee and
From there
He struggled to stay alive
But he did and he made it back to Canada
Where he then struggled to recover from his injuries and then he struggled to adapt to his new life and along the way
He struggled to overcome addiction to pain medications that had been
Given to him so freely
But he did
overcome those struggles and
Made a new life and wrote a book and got elected as a member of the city council of the city of Ottawa
And he continued to raise his young girls and take care of them and by all accounts
We're talking about a model citizen in fact
I'd go so far as to say a model human being
But
Things aren't always as they appear
And although jodie looked to be doing great by any measure behind that public persona
The
struggle continued
And I saw glimpse of it when jodie came down to be on the podcast I first noticed it when I made reservations for jodie at a hotel by my house
And I just got a nice little hotel nearby me so I could pick him up easy and didn't think much of it
I
Even the hotel information in a couple days later he called me up and said he needed to transfer to a different hotel because the hotel that I had made reservations at didn't have
handicap
Accessible rooms
And of course I felt like a like a jerk
But at the same time I didn't really understand because I'd seen all these video clips of jodie
Walking around and and actually running around and he'd gotten
Second place in this TV show called the amazing race where he's doing all these different challenges and I saw pictures of him and videos of him
running and driving cars and and even
Writing motorcycles driving motorcycles
So clearly there was something that I didn't understand that was going on and
Maybe he wasn't as mobile as I thought he was and when I went to pick him up at the airport
I wasn't really sure what to expect
I
Know if he's going to be a wheel chair. I don't know if he's going to need help getting around and as I drove
Through the pickup area looking for me wasn't hard to spot
He was standing at the curb big beasts over six feet tall and he walked over the car with confidence
When we really zero indication that he was walking on to prosthetic legs and
You know, so we recorded the podcast after after noon and it took forever
It was like five hours or six hours and then we got done with that and we went grab steak and
And the next day, you know, he said hey can you give me a tour of San Diego?
Can you show me you know some of the sights around here and so we did that and I took him down to the
The buds compound where the seal training is and then I took him to the seal teams and
We went to the USS midway the aircraft carrier museum and we're walking all over that and and then he wanted to go down to the beach town where I live in so we we walked around there
And it was awesome and he was enjoying it being down from the cold frozen tundra of Canada
And as we got towards the end of the day, you know, Jody started walking a little bit slower and and I noticed on his face he had
A look of discomfort, right that he was you could see was trying not to really reveal it but it was there and then
And then finally said he you know can we can we sit down for a minute these things start to hurt after a while and he's pointing down at his legs and I
Said of course, yeah, no problem man. So he sat down for a little while and
He recovered a little bit and then we got up and we walked a little bit more and then he said hey man can we sit down again
And I said yeah, man, of course
So then we sat down for a little while and then when he got up again he said hey, could we just head back to your house and maybe sit or sit around there for a little while these things are
They're starting hurt pretty good right now, you know the the skin wears off
And it starts to bleed and you know, it's
Doesn't feel good man and I said yeah, but I don't know problem
So we headed back to my house and and we went up on the deck and we sat there and
Just kind of hung out talked and and it became clear to me
Something that I did know from
My other friends that have been wounded badly that
It's a lot harder than it looks
It isn't the bionic man
And it's hard to adapt the
the
Intermingling of human flesh with mechanical parts is not a natural thing. It's not a smooth thing. It's a battle
And it's a battle that's hard for us to perceive
From the outside, but it's a battle that takes place every minute of every day usually behind the scenes
privately
because
As soldiers as
Marines
These men learn to suffer and bear their burdens
silently
And without complaints and it was here at my house that Jodie explained to me why he needed a handy
Gaply accessible room. He said yeah, you know man, I get home and I gotta take my legs off
And then I gotta crawl to the bathroom to use the toilet and I gotta crawl to get in the shower and I need those little handles to pull myself up
Be it's a struggle and
Jodie suffered and struggled again not outwardly not in public
But alone
He pressed on and we kept in touch over the last couple years, you know, text messages and what's going on and did you see this and I sent to that
And I watched as Jodie continued on his journey of his life and he is awesome to watch and he
got back to Canada and he started to podcast and he continued with his political career and he wrote another best-selling book
called everyday heroes
And you know from a distance everything appeared to be going great
But again
Things aren't always what they seem and
Behind all that
Jodie was struggling
And a couple months ago
I got a text a simple text
From Jodie and it read
bro
The enemy outflanked me
Now in military terms
That's about as bad as it gets it means the enemy has attacked your weakness means the enemy has the upper hand it means
You have lost momentum in the battle
And it means you could very likely be overrun
That being overrun means that you're gonna get killed
And I could see from that text that Jodie was at war again not on the battlefield but in his life
But Jodie's a soldier
And Jodie fought back because that's what soldiers do
Then a little while later he sent another text that read on finally turning into the ambush
And starting to fight through
He attacked the problems
He's back on track again back on the path
And came down to visit me
And after talking to him a little bit
And discuss an what he's been through
I asked him if he would come on and talk about it so
Other people not not just veterans but everyone that struggles all of us
Can learn from what he's been through and what he's overcome
So here we are once again and with that
Jodie
Joko welcome back to the podcast
Wow you had me uh, you had me and I'll get in the fields there for a minute
Thank you
Yeah man it's um thank you for that
You were talking to me last night about about the texts
That you had sent me
And you said you know there were some
There were some heavy texts I sent you and and I was like really
And you said yeah and I go
Did I pick up on it and you were like yeah
Yeah, and I thought you did well no when I read through my clearly did yeah and just through the responses and the conversation we were having
But that that first
Text that you sent uh all was like damn and and then I of course I went and
Went back on your social media looked at what you been going through and you dropped off social media and so you had
Basically reached out and said you know hey brother
Need to lean a little air support over on this side and so
What happened from I mean just you leave here from the from the last podcast two years ago you go back to Canada
You start your podcast that was going great great podcast. Oh yeah
Got all you know a lot of people are listening to it getting a lot of feedback from people a lot of people hitting me like
Addodie's podcast is great
So you're doing that you're working on the other book that just came when did that book come out October last October
Last October hit the shelves best seller running boom yeah, so I was already I was already
hadn't done a podcast since me
Actually last podcast I did was with some guys from cansoff
They started their own
Company tactical beaver
That was like supposed to springboard us into the next podcast we had some other guys coming in some other cansoff
Entrepreneurs and we were starting to like kind of shift to supporting veterans in their business opportunity
Because it seems like we're all becoming entrepreneurs or the guys that will employ our friends and things like that
And that's what I want to focus on is how do we help the troops
After they go through what I went through because I had zero plan
Nobody had really dealt with this stuff in cantons since Korea really we had some guys in Bosnia
And that but the the chain of command and then and the government frankly lied about the fact that Canadian forces were in combat
In the in the former Yugoslavia
That all aside the point is
We were we were trying to lead by I was trying to lead by example
Luke my my echo
Luke was was trying to help out and he was doing his best and
He was seeing the wheels fall off the jodimitic machine and
He kept trying to like put him back on and gun tape them and
Just do his best though, but because him and I it's not like we're like close buds like we're not like besties since we were kids or anything
So he's trying to keep his distance and keep that
Like jodimitic podcast is jodimidics and I'm I'm Luke I could tell too and I kept telling my friends that you know that were close as well like
I can tell he really wants to help but he's not sure and then one day
So I had a kind of a perfect storm so I moved out of my house in October last
October 16 and
You know, I'll just get that out of the way that was the beginning really of things going south and it's not cuz
My X and I are
Enemies by any stretch. We're still friends. We have two amazing kids. We had amazing life
It's just sometimes you know sometimes you know units don't mesh right?
That's just kind of the way it went. You know, we both have different visions of our future and and things like that
So
But then you kind of got to put on the the face for the public you know
And so I stopped going to the gym at that time I stopped seeing my therapist just because he's on the other end of town and I can't be bothered right now
I got too many other things to do
And
Even when I was here like you said you saw I forgot about that walk and you're right
I remember sitting on the wall at
Yeah, isn't it is it is it ocean beach? Oh, be yep and
And
I love like the American that's what we call in can americana history is amazing to me in the California beach
Each beach has its own history and the in the group
I love and you're talking about it and I'm looking around at all these buildings built in the 40s 50s 60s and then and in my mind
I drove root 66 to get here like I love
The history of this of this country so much and then I was on root 66
Until I saw the pony express trail is to your left and I went okay turned left and I would follow the pony express trail down into Arizona
But even then
Like you said like the pain was really hitting me and I'm terrified of the pills because of becoming addicted
And so
Okay, what do you do for pain if you're not taking pills?
And I'm not a weed guy like I know I talk about it and everything but I don't know anything about it
But I know a lot about crown royal and jack Daniels and and Captain Morgan and I are good buddies and
So I found
I went from having a beer after work or in my case
I like cider. I know I get made fun of for it, but booze booze boys. You know I'm saying
I can't wait to have that cider after work or that that rummon coke
When I get to the get to the pub with the with the guys and the guys now the guys that you're talking about now are your
Fellow people you're working with in the government a lot of them are politicians but also just some of the boys that
Because otherwise like the biggest military posting in Canada
But also all the can saw for in that area. Got it. So I got you know buddies that are coming back from deployment and I rack
On and off and they come in for their home for a month that gone for three home for three gone for a month
Like so whenever you get it you hear from you run out and of course
They just got back from the sandbox so they want to have a beer too and you know and I'm like
Okay, because it might like I'm going going going I get up at six
Put on my suit go to work
Come home and I'm in pain the whole time and
From the pain you saw to
October 2016 and
Then comes spring 2017 now it's just
It's reached points where I
Wouldn't but I was thinking about drinking before work and it's not because I'm like stressed out and I was stressed out
But it's more like oh man like my look because I
There is a deadening of the of the pain for sure and it's like well Uber ride is only 12 bucks to get the work and
Just in that are my staff drives right by my place to go so I could have her pick me up
And that discipline kept me from doing that for a while
And then I had a trip to Oregon to go shooting at the Lea pole shooting academy
They opened there that was great
But before I left I think I took my legs off for a solid three to four weeks
And as in my wheelchair and I kind of sucked because my car isn't set up to drive
You know my place I got which is like a block from the house so it's not that far from the kids and in the accident
Everything so you know I'm seeing them a lot anyway and stuff but
Nothing else in my life is set up to live without legs even like where I keep my coffee in the kitchen is for when I'm on my legs
So I'm in my I'm in my wheelchair the first day and I'm like I don't really make coffee when I'm in my wheelchair do I
Oh
Tongues right so I get tongs out of the cupboard
Reach off. I can do this whatever a daft and that's like okay time to go to work
Oh shoot and then I did call my staff and she picked me up. All right took a noober
But then I went to Oregon and that was a week
Like it was about 789 dead nine days on my leg straight
Excruciating pain the whole time. Well whatever with happening the doctor I finally went back and she was said that like my skin had reached a point where it couldn't regenerate
Fast enough
So it was just breaking down and then the way I like to wear my legs was being rejected by the body
So I like to wear it with like it's called a suction a suction holds was like a vacuum
Until you release it with a with a valve and my body was like well we're done with this
But I'm like oh, no
Me no like legs legs sleeve legs sleeve take away mobility. Me no want and so my you know that if you're gonna be
Dumb you better be tough and things come but you gotta be tough yeah, and you know and and and and I didn't have
I'm not living with with a medic anymore
Right so she's not there to be like hey stupid
But yourself they take the legs off and let it someone take care of you
My mom actually moved to Ottawa
December 16 and I'm completely ignoring her advice because you know what mom's always gonna try and look after you
But come on mom I'm 40 years old Jesus
Um
And I was pushing away against a lot of the same same things I would then in the same day would tell people like hey man
You gotta let people look after you know because I get texts I probably same as you right I get texts
BBMs I get
DMs on Instagram and and Twitter and Facebook on my fan page and then the podcast page
Hey, what's going on like I need help with this and be like don't be afraid to go get help
Don't be afraid to reach out those around you love you let them look after and I'm completely ignoring any of this advice myself
Because I'm like I kicked oxy cotton when I was
22 I think and on deployment I stopped smoking just because I wanted to
I drank on the weekend. I don't need to drink but need me while I'm sitting there checking these messages while having a drink
I know and I look back and I'm like oh so stupid, but I guess sometimes you gotta go through
There's a reason why you go back to basics. Is there like in your mind when you're going through that?
Are you thinking yourself I could stop if I wanted to every day. I just don't want to yeah
I don't it's not getting in the way of anything. I'm still functional. I'm still at work. I'm still doing
To me my main job was what I was elected to do right now have a four-year in my mind
It's like it's kind of like being in the army where you're on four-year for your commitments right so I'm like well right now
I have a four-year commitment. I'm not drinking at work. I mean at some point I did start drinking at work, but
And politics and business as you know like sometimes after lunch instead of going back to the office you have a beer
And you're still working you're still talking about
Issues you're still getting like I used to get a lot of advice from
I shouldn't say used to I get a lot of advice from the other more experienced politicians because that's what you do
And we all would have a beer or a cider and then they'd go back to the office and I'd stay and keep on the phone and
Yeah, I have one more, you know and another group of guys would come in from like oh
Hey, you're still here like you know someone so I was already back at city hall what kind of what kind of drunk are you?
Happy I'm a happy go lucky. I get a little loud, but it's not like I'm like hey
What's going on? I'm better
But they're you know anyway, well, I know it's here. No, no, I'm actually just asking it
Like you could you could still call them phone and be like hey, buddy, blah, blah, blah, you know some people when they drink they get angry
Some people when they drink they slur their speech really bad. Yeah, so you got all these different types of you know
Drinkers when I drink I basically just like a more of
Jocco yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm more jody yeah for the most part. I do slur, but even I could be like
I swear my words, okay, well, I'll drink some water for a minute and then I'll get it back or I'll have a coffee
And I'm good. I'm normal and even when I'm like I rarely get fall over drunk
Right, if ever, but let me rewind. I know it's a long answer to a short question, but
So may I get back from Oregon and I'm just like
Dianne and then I had to go real quick down to Albany because of part of my job with the city is I'm the sports commissioner
And I'm desperately trying to get the CrossFit games to bring the eastern regional
Games to Ottawa because I just think that'd be awesome to have an Ottawa
We you know we got the UFC in Ottawa. I was a part of that
So I was really proud and I said when I got the job I said I want to do two things in the four years if the UFC and get CrossFit games
So I'm still trying to do the CrossFit games. I got less than a year to do it, but I think we can do it
But anyway, that's a lot of people that
Participate in CrossFit that listen to this podcast
Maybe I met a lot of them and you know what the CrossFit guys are crafty and Albany city itself
They don't want to lose the CrossFit games so they knew I was in town and they started to
Sweat in the deal if you know what I mean and the CrossFit games go well a lot of was off for us this album
You would you guys hey, it's business. I get it, but you know what I'm coming back
Um, I got back from that trip. That was about a four day trip from Ottawa to Albany and back and
When I was here with you guys I didn't bring a wheelchair
Because that's what I meant by I crawl around which is why I could stay at your house, but I don't want your kids see in a grown man crawl to the bathroom
And it's not because I'm above crawling it's just it's one of those personal things in my own space
I'm not above it and around like loved ones okay
So that's why you want your own space and even and stuff like that so even when I visit my dad
I get a hotel room right on my dad loves me and it's I'm not but it's also my space where if I want to crawl around naked I can
Right and
So anyway
That's why that so then I get back and I take the legs off and I just I can't put them back on
I look I would like I don't know if I said it on your show last time, but I have mornings
Right look at my prosthetics. I'm like fuck sorry sorry, I know we're allowed, but
I'm trying to be a little bit bit of a man. I go you know what I mean? I mean I go I don't want you have to edit out things that I say
Okay, it's so good
Um, I took him off and I just looked I just threw him across through when I said I can't
Deal I have a wound in my left stump. I did I show it to you? No, it's been there since April of
And it happened I remember the second it happened my brother and I were doing an amazing race thing post show
In Alberta and we did a little like you know go hey Jody and Cory from amazing race
We got a few bucks for it. We gave us a speech to
some kind of convention and then
I was walking down the airport to to the plane and I felt something's going my foot
It's and it's like having a hot spot when you're on a rock march or whatever
Except I can't really shift what part of my foot I'm walking on I just can't and it went from a little tiny like break in the skin to
Something the size and can we have two knees it's two dollars?
You I know you guys still use the dollar if you sent peace like a fifty cent peace and then back now it's down to like a pin prick of
Scab
But that's what we talking now we're
Almost four years
Right and I had to mitigate that the whole time and it was painful and I got a couple of I got two infections and
In the four years from it
But that's where I was like that's it. I need to let myself heal. I need to like
Let my body regenerate except now from that and it took me until fall
Late fall to realize that when I did that I might as well have stepped on another landmine
And I went through it took me to late fall to go because I was like because that's when things really went south
Because you basically not even basically because you lost your legs again. Yeah, I lost my legs again
Except because truly when you were down here even though you were in pain
Bro, we were doing you know we were walking up and downstairs
We were we're doing whatever we walked all over that aircraft part over that aircraft carrier up and downstairs
We walked all over the seal compound. We walked there. You know we I loved it
Now and out on the beach when we walked out on the beach where you guys torture the the recruit. Yeah, yeah, it's every step
I was like oh
Because he got a dig through the sand. Yeah, but to me that's hollowed ground, bro
Like when you took me to the grinder. I remember standing there like this is the grinder like
I'm okay. I'm kidding army and but there's some things where you go you just you feel
Right if I brought you up to the recruit spot and for basic in the can you know army you'd you'd feel you get that feeling
Like this is where soldiers are born. Yeah. That's it. You know say there's been a lot of those little
They have the little fins on the grinder so the what what Jody's talking about is where they train seals
That first day in the movies, right? Yeah, it's and they have little
Fins so like little dive fins there's little for you know the Marine Corps they have boots
In the army they have boots painted on the ground. They paint them on the ground
Well in the on the grinder at buds they have little swim fins two little tiny swim fins are painted
And there's you know a couple hundred of them and that's when you get out there for PT you stand on your little set of swim fins and then as the days go by
There's less and less yeah, yeah, and then and I've read I've read if I've read less than 24 Navy seal books from
From the beginning to today right yours included I'd be surprised. I've read I've read the the old lirps
Those guys have read about the original rangers. I've read about the Canadian
American special service forests actually when I was with Rob my buddy from the green braids down in Numa
I was wearing a ranger up t-shirt that's like a special service forest tribute
You know to me like that's our history that's the history of of of soft in Canada and the US and and then you know and buds
And the green braids or Navy seals the green braids are kind of created by Kennedy at the same
Bob see look at me. I'm a fucking nerd when it comes to this stuff
So to me you know the I
Haven't been there but I've heard about it because a lot of my friends have been there the Aussies
They have a parade ground like the middle of their compound if you've been there. No, I've never been Australia
They're the the only time they use this parade ground apparently is at Memorial services for their men
Yeah, and I believe that no one walks on it
It's just in the middle of their compound no one walks on it. Well in Canada we have a similar thing where if you're on the parade square and it's not parade
Like you're going on extra duty like if the sergeant major catches you on his parade square
A you better be have a broom in your hand or you better be on parade and if you're not like because it's it's usually like
Oh, if I go from here to there
It's right across the parade square, but it's the short route. Yeah, and it's like one of those tests, right?
There's a new guys in the hallways of most units the unit emblem is in the floor and and there's one of those sergeants
That just has nothing better to do but to stand there and watch and see who steps on the
And even if you're like family of one of the troops
Oh my god, I don't even get the knife hand. It's awesome, but
When I was here I wasn't gonna not go see the grinder because my fucking legs hurt don't be a pussy
And I'll be honest that first night after you dropped me off. I had a couple drinks
To ease the ease the day like when we left your porch and you dropped me back at the hotel yeah
I went and I had a few drinks the hotel bar you know and I and I I was
Actually toying with talking to you about this stuff back then because it was bugging me event and I'm like okay
What do I do? What do I talk to?
Talk was a kind of guy echoed is the kind of energy you want to be around and like you know and that's one of the
Part of this trip
For the last ten days I've been on is it's kind of like refining
a lot of my Canadian and American friends that have kept me on on the straight narrow
All right, as much as you can did for jodimitic and
It's a little bro. It's a constant wrestling match, right? The little evil and the good angel except a lot of times
They high five each other. Okay. Let's see what happens
And
And yeah, man, so when the legs came off so no car so now my mommy
Uber or my staff or my ex or driving me around all happy to do it all not like holding it against me
But at the same time man, I I'm out of sandwich meat
Hmm
Okay, now I need to go to the store
Hey mommy can can you drive my car and take me to the store and
And then that's I kind of turned my hat backwards and kind of like you know
Try to like you know cowboy up and do it
But I took me again until
In my daughter turned nine September 19th I think it was her I missed a lot of her birthday for being hung over
And she was at this awesome trampoline place and I'm in a wheelchair
And I remember getting there and being like
All I want to do right now is jump on trampolines with my with my little girl and I can't and be I'm an hour and a half late for her party
Because I decided to have too many drinks last night and that was when I was like what the fuck is really wrong with me
Because I couldn't
Really get it and then what is what is the escalation?
Right, so you were down here with me. Yeah, you know we worked hard
We because it is you know, you want a podcast like when we when we do sit there and talk to each other about intense stuff for five hours
Yeah, then we went and ate we stayed up late. We get up early the next day. We go do all the stuff that we did and you get done
You have a couple drinks right
What does that escalation look like over time where you're like you know what?
You're not even saying like oh, I don't know if I stabbed drinks. You're like hey, as soon as the jocco gets in his car
I'm getting some drinks right now
Yeah, it's something that you recognized is it something that you just you just said to yourself
You know what this is gonna make me feel better right now and I gotta go
I don't remember exactly what month I was here do you like I don't remember no
I know it was a warm month and and Canada like it was cool, but I was spring or fall
Well, we started in December. It was 24 podcasts in that's how many December of what?
2015 so must have been spring for
15th or 16. Yeah spring spring 16 so I
I remember in Canada it wasn't cold but like we were wearing still wearing down vests with food with hoodies and stuff
When I was doing my quick podcast for a left so
At that time I was it was just the pain was just kind of like a couple drinks for bed, right?
But even that was bugging me and that's what I mean like when I was but then like if
If it had been this spring
Where we'd met? Yeah, I would have been like
Like like this the whole time and like as soon as jocco's gone
I might as just like last night when we had dinner
I might have just been like fogg it. I'm having drinks. Yeah. I don't care if jocco's here because
Being around someone like you like
And I used to be the guy who could I don't need to drink I would go month and be like oh, yeah
I'm in a drink like you know, I'll have a drink and
And you don't drink and you haven't drinks until you were like in your 20s. I think you still don't know. I haven't drank since I retired
Oh, okay, so it's time I felt the effects of alcohol which I felt quite strongly was that the basically the day I retired
Yeah, you hear the day I retired which was
October 1st 2010, you know, of course mean the boys we went out
We had a bunch of drinks. I woke up in the morning because I still wake up early and I woke up in the morning
And I was like well, yeah, that's done because I got other stuff I got to do now and
Basically when I no longer had
We'll call him friends to drink with
Yeah, then I was like, yeah, well, I'm done with that and I just ever since then just haven't really
You know, I've had and another thing is sometimes people think I'm like offended if they have drinks or whatever
I'm not you know
I remember actually I went I was on the first podcast. I was on was Tim Farruses
And we got done with the podcast and
You know, we went out to group grab some food because I was staying the night at his house and we went out and we got some food
We got some steak and he's like do you mind if I have it class of wine with this? I was like, oh, I don't care
You know, yeah, you're not like a reformed alcohol or yeah, you just decided one day you're like my dad one day
He was like, yeah, this gets in the way of work. Yeah, that's kind of that's kind of my attitude
It doesn't really yeah
And if I want to drink something that tastes good then I'll drink a chocolate milk
Which I love the taste of yeah, I had a chocolate white tea right? I mean that stuff makes me feel good
And I just yeah and people asked me a lot and I need it something that I need to address on the podcast because the other thing is just
I might as well delve into this a little bit right at this moment, but when I was a kid
I was in the hardcore music. I was into and and the type of music that I listened to was against drinking and against
Like it was yeah, but the
But you tried it. Yeah, we're talking straight edge. We're talking minor threat. Yeah, really. Yes, absolutely and so it was almost and I was again
I was never really I'm very I'm very I'm not a real good follower
So anytime there's some kind of a movement going on
I'm always like saying wait, why is this movement going on? Why yeah? I was questioning
I don't just jump in I'm hard to get on board with something like that
So it was around I wasn't like so there's a there's a thing with straight edge. Okay, so this this thing was called straight edge
It started and I'd say you'd the the epicenter of it was in Washington DC the first band really to coin the term was
Minor threat which is a punk band
Hard to find better than my assumes they were partiers. No, not at all. Just by the name no and so one of the things that one of the symbols of straight edge was
You know when you go to a bar when kids used to go to bars for a show for a for a music show
If they were too young to drink once when the bounce looked at their ID card
They'd put a big X on their hands and so the straight edge symbol was they'd put the X's on their hands
Meaning look I don't drink and it's actually funny because I took my
To my kids to see the white buffalo the other night in San Diego and it was awesome
And but when they came when they showed their ID is they got the X's on their hands and
I was like oh yeah, so you know fans so what the straight edge kids would do is they would draw big
X's on their hands meaning hey look I'm not drinking so there was that and then that of course morphed into like a gang
And there was you know by the time I was a
You know middle teenager there was hardcore gangs that would assault people that drank and
Would get crazy while it was together with the jugglers
Yeah, so it just so so when I was a kid
I was okay, and I wasn't like a full-on
I wasn't drawing that kind of thing. No, I never like had X's on my Instagram
But I but I understood
Philosophically right what was being said right which was look
I want to win right I'm hardcore
I want to be stronger. I want to be a where I want to be alert and
Drinking and doing drugs doesn't give me any those things so
At that so sorry, but even at that age you understood the fuel goes into the machine affects the performance
Yes, he I didn't get that as a young man. Yes, but so here I am and and it was you know
I was in discipline and you know I had a before the seals. Oh, yeah, I had a band a hardcore band the name of my hardcore band
Was rage of discipline that was the name of my hardcore band that was after that was what that's what
Bronson's children because my first band when I was like 13 was called Bronson's children
But then as I got older and I got more hardcore then it became a rage of discipline
There's also about nine other Bronson's children Bronson's children's Charles Charles
He didn't drink I don't even know oh
You know
We do know Charles Bronson was a badass when I was a kid
I thought Charles Bronson was the man because he was the baddest man on the planet. Yeah, he was you know a
tail gunner in a
You know bomber World War II and he grew up in the mines when he was a kid when he was 10 years old or 11 years old
He was working in the mines and
Until he was old enough he used to have to wear a dress because he didn't have his parents and have money to buy him close
He had to wear one of his sisters dresses down in the mines
So then he went to World War II and then he became and you know he's he's just had great movies
He always played this stoic character that was on emotional and so I was you know
Hey when I grew up on a beach Charles Bronson of course
So then we had a band who was called Bronson Children well as we got more hardcore eventually that name morphed into
Rage of discipline of which Elgin James was the guitarist who's another buddy of mine that echo is mad
Who will come on the podcast at some point and tell his crazy life story which I'm a
Big part of in the beginning until you say alter we got the year the pre military jocco series
So I'll be tuned into that one long story
Then I joined the military. Yeah, so when I joined the military
What do I want to be I want to be a seal? I want to be a frog man. I want to be the best frog man
I can be I show up at a sealed team guess what frog man do frog man drink? Okay cool
I didn't know that now that I know that give me a give his shot a egg or myster
Cause I made a rock and roll and that was sort of how you proved yourself and that's what we did and I was
immature and dumb and
And
Despite everything I just said about like hey, I'm a little bit
I'm hesitant to really follow well now I'm in the sealed teams
This is my dream job and this is what I want to do and if you don't buy in you're not in
Yeah, and it's like it's not I don't even know if it's it's just like that's the way it is. That's yeah
My first drink I was 17 right after I finished basic training. I show up at the regiment and they're like all right
What are you drinking and I'm like because my family's full of alcoholics on both sides?
And it's nothing
I guess I'm like you know grandpa was my other grandpa was and grandpa's grandpa was and you know one of my own
Nothing okay, they might hear this but we all know what you do. Okay, right so not a big deal, but
And dad but dad was one of those guys. He was like well, I just doesn't affect me and me personally like you as a kid
I'm like I don't really see the interest like what I can throw up on myself and
Whatever whatever and I was one of those kids that say no to drugs actually worked on you know like
Like now molder and like man I should have been smoking weed says like 12 and shit, but
I still don't but I did I just like you see the effects on people like when I was a bounce
I'm like yeah, the guy just smoked weed or really mellow. Yeah, and the guy that had co-condrank like they were the one doing the problem
But
When I get to the regiment the first night of parade is done and they're like, hey, what are you drinking?
I'm like well, I'm 17. They're like this is an army mess like it's okay. Just won't worry
We're all gonna keep it up like it's not like I'm not trying to tell the world like hey under age people drink
But hey under age people drink, but it's an environment full of people that are there to look out for each other anyway
So I had a couple of drinks and I'm like okay, this is the way it is and same thing yeah work
Monday to Friday you work your ass off you go hard as you can like you go hard in the paint right
You your your tires are stripped at the end of the day
Friday rolls around okay
Don't see it eight a.m. Monday morning boys and you know
If you're gonna drink don't drive, but if you do drink driver that's what you got told when you when you're dismissed for the weekend, right?
Yeah, and so basically have a fun blow off the steam don't hurt anybody and take care of each other is basically what you're told
So
The seal team's definitely is a culture it was even more when I first got in because now you're talking about the old Vietnam guys
And it wasn't a war going on and it was just hey, what are you gonna do if there's no war going on and you're
You're a frog man. What are you gonna do well? We drank and and I'm not I'm gonna look down on it
We had a great time. It was fun. I just bonded. We had you know, it was it was fun. It was what you know
What we did and I'm not even trying to say anything negative about it
But that's what it was and unfortunately there's a lot of guys
I should even say a lot there's a
A decent number of guys that don't do well without call man and it ruins their lives ruins their careers and that sucks
It sucks to see I never really had any issues. I
Drank when I drank I never get into fear of my way in any way and
You know that was it wasn't a huge deal and I mean of course when I mean when I'm talking when I was
19 20 21 22 and we drank a lot
We drank a lot
Weird how your body legic that is yeah, yeah, and you got up the next morning
Yeah, we got up the next morning
The T like it was nothing we and that's what we did
But then like I said and even now you know when I when I go out and
Hang out with some of my old buddies or actually it's more now when I just when I've gone with and hang out with some of my old buddies
You know we probably don't even you know maybe have a beer but
When I go see the young guys the young guys are getting after I don't look down on them at all
I think you know you're getting after it. I found
I found when I hung out with my buddies that are still serving
You're not in the gig anymore. You're not doing the jobs
You're a little out of shape your your drills are a little rusty maybe or whatever
I find when I'm around guys my age that are still
Operational I can't keep up with them drinking or anything because it's part of the training it's part of the culture
I've fallen off and even like before I was in I didn't really drink and then when I got out
I stopped drinking as much you know and it's not like again guys
We're not joc on iron saying the military we're all
Functional alcoholics what we're saying is it's just what we do and you know
Remember the job that that we volunteer to do we we volunteer to run into gunfire
You know for our countries and for fun like a it's face at a lot of us think it's fun
I thought it was the best time my life
But you still got to blow off that steam and booze is really good at lubricating the you know
The the the the the machinery of blowing off steam
So when I when I started drinking for pain though
Yeah, is where I realized because even the pills bro like let's go back to my pills
I didn't know I was addicted to pills until I watched
Intervention and Billy was addicted to oxy cotton
I was like I said this on the show last time oxy cotton that sounds familiar and I pick up the pill bottle
That's next to me and I go oh I'm an oxy cotton and then they say the doses he takes are this
I'm like I'm on three times the dose he's on and I'm like that's when I went I can get addicted to pills
I get it was so foreign to my brain that doctors said I doctor me and pain
Dr. Go here soldier take this and I go okay and I take it no more pain go fight more you know
That's that's
Going back to alcohol thing is is one more thing for me
I was just about to say this
Was I said hey look went back in the day before the war started it was like nothing else like yes
Nothing better to do it's gonna get drunk now the younger guys
They're smarter than we were and
They've a reason to be they have a reason to be there and they have a reason not to drink they're like hey, bro
I'm gonna go fight a war you know like I want to be in shape
I want to be better. I want to be faster
I don't want to get into fight. I don't want to get a DUI so they're smarter than they are and
That part of the culture is slowly changing and I think it's good. It's awesome. I think it's awesome and I hope it continues
Again, I think it's it got over-emphasized when I first came in over-emphasized in the 90s
It was like but it was a way because we weren't fighting anyone
Exactly, so you drank to be a man then you fight each other and have another platoon shows up
You fight those fucking guys of another squad shows up or another company all right band together
I know we were just fighting, but we'll get back to that. There's a red there's an armored regiment over there
We're gonna go fuck those guys. There's there's something that I've been thinking about on this subject which is
If in the military right and even in life as a human you want to prove that you're ready to
Sacrifice yourself for the cause. I'm willing to make this sacrifice well in a bizarre and
Kind of unfortunate way
Proving to Jody that you know what watch this Jody I'm gonna drink 16
Know your not fire law. You're not. Yes. I'll be in the I don't care. I don't have the part of bitch
And see it go. Oh, then I prove line up 18 line up 18 army versus Navy. Let's go
That's fucking way goes echo echo you played football. Yeah, you were talking about that earlier about
Or on the show I listen to where you take in a shit with no stalls
And you're saying yeah and football we'd rip the doors off the stall. Yeah, oh, yeah, I don't care. Watch me shit
What's what's more out of the words now?
What's more out to happen now is it got to be like hey?
I can clean and jerk, you know
285 what can you get and and so the guys are they're focused on something that fit this now
Yeah, they're focused on their blown out shoulders and yeah, I will talk about that later
But so but I get what you're saying because in the Canadian forces we hadn't had a war
Since Korea yeah, and we had the what combat we had as I was coming in was being downplayed we had guys
Take we had a guy and this is history this is proven
He took an RPG around through his chest like just killed him obviously and everything but his family's told he was killed in a rollover
Because our government was like
They're supposed to be peacekeeping. Where was it in the former Yugoslavia?
I know a guy who took a sniper around through the chest as a tank commander
He was told shut the fuck up take your pension and your benefits got full benefits like it didn't they didn't downplay what you've got
And if you're wounded they just said don't you dare tell anybody we had a we had a unit come home after like fighting some of the most intense combat in Europe since
World War II when the crowads are trying to go through a sir area and ethnicly cleanse
And this is in the 90s when the Canadian like rep for peacekeeping really got
Which was no-in-sense Egypt but came back because our units and the French foreign Legion units were the only units
I were like fuck you were not moving if you're gonna have something cleansed through here
You're going through us whereas all the other UN units ran away and they were in four or five days of like intense combat
bunch of wounded no killed thankfully, but
The government and the and the and the chain of command were like shut your fucking mouths go home like nothing happened
That's real that's real bro
Google may-dak pocket Canadian forces and you'll read all about these
dudes who just like basically were like hanging out drinking coffee smoking butts and telling war stories that they never happened to
Being in a war and going holy shit a buddy of mine
He's gonna get mad at me. He put out a book called shadow keeper or ghost keepers. I'll get the name sorry
And I'll and he was the first Canadian unit him and his unit where the first Canadian unit's in the Bosnia and
The shit they saw and the things they went through and it's a great book by the way ghost keepers
Why would he be mad at you for talking about it? No, no forget in the name room. Oh, okay. Sorry about that
But the point is that
At that time he was told like you don't tell we don't we don't brag is what the line that was told but really the government back home was like
We didn't know this was gonna happen. Well
You don't piece keep without bus and heads. Yeah, like there's a reason if you if I want to go kill that guy and you're in my way
I guess what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna triangle through you, right? Like they they they they this concept of peacekeeping
You know was like you know like the guy with the Billy club. All right, okay, everybody keep it down here
See like that's kind of what the politicians thought that was for college kids sometimes
Yeah, but even then every now and then you smack when over the head with that Billy club like and I think and I remember my first tour in
Kosovo even we train for a crowd control we train for a
Whole lot of things, but then the final training exercises when we all went oh
Because the Russians rolled in and took over the airport and in Kosovo. I don't know if you remember that yeah, and
we did a live training exercise
joint
Armored a full combat team exercise
Like main battle tanks firing and it like I'd never I my dick was rock hard
You were five we've got 500 rounds on each other. We're just like
Blitz flying everywhere and like like range the range control safety was like minimal
Right because they're like trying to simulate real combat
And then we got but anyway the point is that when you don't have anything to point your soldiers at they turn on each other
And that's what we were getting earlier
But to round out the whole like what soldiers board soldiers are danger echo. I think if you've been around a group of active Navy seals
I think or maybe even Army guys like yeah, I think I've nothing else to fight though. Just fight each other. Yeah, like
We used to we used to whenever we were waiting for a plane to go on a trip like this and put my youngest like it would start off with
Okay, let's see you can hit that
Pull over there with a rock
Yeah, right and then all of a sudden it's like okay
Let's see you can hit the light with the rock and then all of a sudden it's hey, let's see you can hit
That car
Tire with a rock and pretty soon your car is it whoever
Just bunch of idiots right and pretty soon you're even a half either having a rock fight
Right, which is which is not smart because you're Hawking rocks is based balls at each other or whatever
Yeah, and yeah, but we were talking about was that the newer guys see how we did it
But they have an enemy though. Yeah, absolutely they have an enemy
We have a perpetual enemy that is not going away and so I see the guys that are in my unit now
They come in and they're like okay, what supplements are gonna keep me at my best exactly like they read my book
They go okay, so Joe the you'd stop drinking coffee how many days before you deployed?
I'd be like well at least five days so it's out of my system because when I'm out there getting after the enemy
I don't want to be having a caffeine crash
But if I need it, I want that piece did you ever get that wake-up gum?
You know in your rats know it's like four cups of coffee in one day or two cups of coffee and like when you need it
Like I would keep that in my pocket till the very end like the heel might be coming to pick us up
And if I didn't take it I was happy but sometimes yeah you take that in the middle of a mission and you're like
Okay, I got two more days in me, right?
But the point is like they have something to aim themselves at right is at the beginning we didn't but even then
Booze wasn't a big deal to me. It was just what we did like you said
Fast forward to this fall that would just pass and I realized I'm crashing
I felt like you were saying you saw something oh you see it because I kind of cut you off
You were talking about seeing the program
Where they show addicted people what's that program called intervention you were seeing the action when I first got wounded
You know seven and that's when I realized I was addicted to the pills
But not addicted like I need a pill it was like my body would just start reacting and I would be like
I'm itchy for some reason and then that's when I started using off and I never took a pill after
Father's day 2011
But even that you read the book I ended up buying pills from a guy in an alley once and I went what the fuck is it like
And the system has treat me like an asshole because I want more pills and then they're like yeah
If you want more pills you got to come to the hospital every day to get your dose
I'm like well not a fucking junky dog. I just don't the dose you're giving me isn't enough to keep me from feeling like shit
And like and then I'm mitigating my stress with the pills
So maybe okay, so go to more therapy and that's when I started rebuilding in 2011
So come the fall I'm still not on my legs. I
I wait this is 2011
2011 when I quit the pills got it and that's why I thought booze wouldn't be a problem
cigarettes are in a problem booze isn't a problem you'd put a problem
I mean you'd quit pills whatever
It was like a whatever when the time comes for you to quit booze you have to quit that's what you were thinking when I'm ready
I'll be done with it and but what I what what happened and if you're a politician the most important thing federal
state
Municipal so can't have state would be provincial
Budget money money is the big thing that everybody worries about in private life and everything else so
So if what when are we talking about right now? Sorry you're already bat your back now. I'm bouncing around a bit
I'm just saying in my mind
wasn't that big a deal
as far as the drinking because I'd kicked all these other habits and I
Whether it's real or not I had an army psychologist once tell me I had an anti-addictive personality
Because I guess like you like to me. It's like okay. Well, what's gonna help me function better
What's gonna get me to the next day without too many issues and if I want to have a few drinks
I'm gonna have a few drinks and I can because tomorrow morning. I don't have to be anywhere until 9 a.m. anyway
So whatever if I'm a little hungover when I get there. I'll have a coffee and a glass of water
Or a gatorade and an advil not a big deal
Fast forward to again my daughter's birthday in the last fall
Oh daddy can't be there yet because I'm almost still hungover right? I got my cup
And I and I was when I realized I'm going through I was like I felt this before because I kept asking myself
What the why do I keep screwing everything up and then the budget's processed started that's where I was going with this and that's where
I remembered I'm not because you're not a private citizen anymore. You know that right? What do you mean?
Well, if you fell off Instagram tomorrow there's a million people out there it probably like where the fuck is Jacco
And I was toasting less I was being less upbeat in what I did post
The few last couple podcasts even going back to the spring
On one of them we got loaded and we said it was for fun, but I like I needed a drink myself
Um
And I'm starting to miss budget and budget is money that's what everything runs on the city of Ottawa has a three and a half billion dollar budget
Why is in counts are minic at the budget meeting for the community protective services committee
Community protective services committee. Oh
He's not feeling well his legs are bugging him stuff like whatever my staff said
I'm tell they're asking me what's going on boss? And I'm like yeah, I just need to buy me some time
But that's when the media and the voter goes no no no no
We get it you like the right books and you like to do podcasts you like to shoot guns and you know you're a dude and we accept you as who you are
But our four-year commitment the biggest part of that commitment is making sure the money is spent properly
And on the things that we want it spent on and we elected you to be that voice
Why aren't you at that meeting and
Personal private matters can only get you so far during like the most important part of your job, right?
Well, either go on medical leave or be at the meeting is
Basically what I was told right get a doctor's note or be here and
That's when I ended up doing that radio interview in December when it really came to a head
And when I had to really admit to myself like I'm
border I think I was in my mind I was borderline
alcoholic I guess
But I was I was just not
able to deal with that failure in myself
How much how much were you drinking at the peak? It was a 40 ounce of whatever I get my hands on sometimes
It was like two
Remember one time it was two 26 ounce bottles of rye of crown royal with my branded choice and if that wasn't around
Again jacked in and you're drinking you're getting down with work and that's it
Just no at this point. I just waking up in the morning and drinking okay not even on a work
Like I was just I knew in the morning I couldn't go and then you feel like shit because you drank all day
So what do you do? You go for the hair of the dog and that just turns into a perpetual circle and
Then the wounds I was talking about earlier. They're not healing because my body's full of alcohol
And a friend of mine said you know what my dad used to have that problem because he drank too much too
And he would like cut his hand working on like
Woodwork in the shed and it would be there for like six eight nine months and then he'd sober up for a couple months and then it would go away
But then he'd fall back and I went
Your dad the maniac you've told me stories about and she was like yeah, and I'm like
Okay, so this is really becoming a problem. So now I'm dealing with the internal struggle of I'm a complete failure of a human being
I've met failed my kids. I failed the voters. I failed like friends of mine like jacco and echo who
You know we expect certain things from each other, right? Are we think we do and you could you could have a terrible day
And I would never judge you for it, but you don't know that until it happens, right?
And even if you know that you still don't want to
admit it
Never mind to jacco or echo how about to yourself
Right and again I'd stop meditating. I'd stop going to my therapist. I'd stop going to the gym. I'd stop podcasting
I'd stop writing really even though and then during the book tour in October and I know I'm rewinding a little bit
But I the last thing I wanted to do is go on the book tour
But the book is coming out and that's a commitment that I signed and you know you're dealing with all this and I
And I did the tour in my wheelchair and everybody's like oh you're doing so much better
Because you're okay with being in the wheelchair and I think yeah, yeah cool close the hotel room door and like open a drink right have a drink
So
December was the worst month of my life getting blown up was easy in my opinion dealing with this shit
But what I didn't do in 2007 was actually deal with the fact that I was blown up
Frankly I was so like yeah recover be useful to the regiment be useful to the queen
Be better for the country
Put prosthetic legs on life is normal ish and then now I'm like okay
First of all now dude you're 40
Second of all you you have kids that are now like worth of like I would see them and they be like
We miss you like where have you been like why aren't you?
Around more and like you just you don't live far away like what's your excuse?
because oh because I'm ashamed of you seeing me all
Dealing with the next day of being drunk and stuff you know and egg and it really it really
It really became I understand now I've always been sympathetic to addicts since my oxy cotton days
But now I get how depression can really make you into
Someone not worth saving in your own mind
And I get it and I've never
Dis I've never thought
Hatefully or anything of friends that have committed suicide or have gone down that path of depression that you just if you're not in it
You don't get it and you go man. I can't you just like read a book or listen to some comedy or not drink today like have
I'll sit with you and have a water and you just don't get it
And I was doing a lot of this on my self isolation too because you don't want anyone seeing you like this and then
The few people that do hang around are often in the same
In one of the levels of of fuck up of life fuck up and so
You know, I've talked about this before where and it sounds like you're describing exactly
I talk about how like people get into a place where they're basically in a storm, right?
There there's a storm all around their head and no matter which direction they look
They just see clouds and thunder and rain and horror, right?
And everybody that's outside that storm looks at him and they go, yeah you're in the storm
Just come over here and you'll be out of the storm. Just move over here and you'll be out of the storm
Yeah, just put down the drink or you know start working out again or whatever
You just move over here and you'll be out of the storm
Yeah, but but that person can't see they can't see the direction everything around them is a storm
They don't understand how me coming over there is like climbing a mountain
And not to give anyone shit, but maybe a little bit of shit if you know who you are
Hey man, I want to watch you have seen tonight at my place. Yeah, cool except hey bro
I'm in a wheelchair. I can't even get in your front door
Can you come to my place where I can get around and take a piss without getting out of water bottle and you know like being embarrassed in front of your wife
Yeah, but you live all the way over there like
We've already got plans and shit like well cool. What about next weekend?
That kind of that didn't help as well because people like they don't like even coming here
You're like oh, I'll just buddy carry up the stairs and I'm like yeah, I trust you
But at the same time like some of my friends offering to carry me into their house
They're like 140 pounds like soaking wet
Never been lifted away in their life and nothing against them, but it's like you want me to trust my physical safety
Or you could just come to my place
Like like and they don't get it and I don't I'm not mad anyone about it
It's like it's like that saying like I don't hate them about it, but at the same time it's kind of like
All right cool man. I'll just watch the fight and we can text and I'll be at my place alone again
Right like because I didn't leave my dog isn't at the place where I'm out right now, right?
So that all thing just kind of fell into a big blender and in December
How long did that?
So did this when you got back in your wheelchair
Yeah, you gave up the legs. Yeah, that's really this may it's so in me when you get like I said to you
We went a lot long trip you went to Albany you come back from that
Now you're now you're like I'm done with my prosthetics. They're freaking killing me. Yeah, and I'm getting in a wheelchair
Back in the wheelchair is that sort of like now you're just you're now you're just gaining momentum going downhill
I yeah, well then, but that's a crazy thing is I thought I'm starting to climb up
Because I'm like finally admitting I can't wear my prosthetics because I would like walk into council
Which is the big like every two weeks you do the big meeting and that's where all like all
Everything you went to the bar and drank about and then went to the office and like I argued behind the scenes of each other
Now you sit down and you go all those in favor. I all those against the you know, nay and then it's past all
Resolution passes and now it's a legal de-dice cream on bank street on Sundays
Which is a bylaw and Ottawa that I'm gonna actually try and get changed by the way from like 1800s
But the point is that's the big show
Like if all the other training right like that's the live fire exercise
Or that's the actual op right so that's what you're work for
So when I started missing those at the end of the year when we're pat like the budget is the thing that if without budget
You have you guys just had a government shutdown over budget. Yep. That's you're trying to avoid and that's when the media who
You know, they're doing their job
But joddy-middick in a headline gets clicks and now joddy-middick the guy everybody loves oh
He's fucking up what's going on here one guy even made a video called no show-middick
Because I'd miss like four or five meetings
But the meetings I'd missed were the ones out like you could miss every other meeting throughout the year and nobody would give a
Fine fuck of a rolling donut
Which is a saying out of a book a series of books. I love but
But I miss these three meetings. Oh, no, oh, no, man like these are the meetings
We really voted for you to be at where you at no show-middick and this guy is trying to make it a name from self as a political commentator
Whatever he's a nice whole but the point is
Say that shit to my face
the point is
He's right though
Where is no show-middick and now in my because that's what I wasn't my head already
Right and then I'm like okay, so I thought if I said personal family matters or personal health matters
They get it they know me they know I've
Dealing with stuff along the way, but they're like yeah, we get it man, but if you don't tell us what's going on
And we're gonna assume you're just fucking late being lazy because why don't why shouldn't we?
And I went okay and a reporter buddy in mine and I sent you a couple of texts that's when I and I when you said that earlier
I my skin went like you know we got the goose bump because I
Forgot I sent that and I was starting to think like okay
I got to go back to basics. I got to remember who I am and what I was and my own advice and
That's when I went oh yeah, I got too comfortable in my pity in the enemy now is on my left flank and I have zero defenses on the left flank
And what do you instead of fighting a shitty losing rear guard?
You turn and you face the fucking you face the battle so I turned and a reporter friend of mine and first for the record
Reporters are not really friends those friends that you kind of keep at arms length and you're always ready to punch
But you never know right you're not really punch, but I'm not threatening anyone with violence
You PC world weirdos, but he's he called me on a personal note and he said hey man
Here's what's being said in the in the media world about you and this is what could be going to headline if you don't say anything soon
And I went okay, well
Some of that's true some of that's made up, but that's what you do when you don't know and I said all right
Uh, can I come on your show and he's like well
That's what I was just about to ask you if you want come on my show and that's Evan and
We and then we went and we talked about it and he was very kind to me. He's rough. He's a tough dude. He's a tough
Reporter, but at the same time very fair
And he hit me with a few with a few hits and I hit him back
But what I did was I got it all out of my system because it's basically you feel like you're holding never mind
I'm keeping a secret from Jaco and Echo
I'm keeping a secret from 40,000 residents who trust me to be their counselor
Then there's all the fans of Jodi medic that are out there and all the supporters
Who are all amazing and who all are willing to
Support you through the best and the worst of times, but they can't support you without anything that they like
To them I just stopped podcasting for no reason and I've stopped being positive on social media
So what like what did you just decide is this the real Jodi now? Is that who like are you faking it before like that's some of the messages
I got like oh obviously you figured out that you can still make money and be be the asshole
You actually are and I was like oh shit Jesus maybe I am that asshole, but when I did my buddy's show a
Huge weight went off my shoulders. I shouldn't say buddy, but you know
But the point is that that was the beginning of me turning into the into the fight instead of running and
I had a couple setbacks so so hold on so this show that you did and you you said you listen
I did listen to it, but the the the premise of the show was what you did for lack of a better word
As you took ownership of everything that was going on I
Even laughed I was laughing right before I went online. I went under the show
I said I'm doing a job on I'm taking extreme ownership. You went on your own
So you went on there and you said like a baby by the way anyone who's been tough guy I've been drinking too much
Yeah, what do you like what were the facts?
What were the things that you took ownership of was that that was the major thing right well the the booze caused a lot of the
lack of energy lack of a tentative
attendance went down because it's one thing to be
Buzz it's another thing to be completely hung over and fucked up and show up for meeting like you you know yourself
I know myself and I know like if I go in there like this right now people will be like
He is completely
Fucked right and I know I'm swurring a lot and I apologize, but
You avoid that and then so I said okay guys
Well here's why I missed this meeting and here's why I missed that meeting because I've turned to an old friend
Crown Royal instead of my my therapist and my doctors and my friends and my family and my supporters
And all the things that made me able to cope from 2007 to 2017
So for basically a decade I forgot about and I left behind like
Never my I was never my engine like stopped the gym stop talking my therapist stopped talking to my kid
Stop talking to my ex stop talking to my mom stop talking to my dad
my friends again. I was self-isolating and
There were times when I'd want to pick up the phone and just call it you or Rob or
Or some of my friends at home or some of my sniper buddies and just be like I don't know what to do
And now you're man echo right sure imagine trying to make that call
Yeah, and I'm not saying it's a man problem. I'm saying it's a shit definitely a human problem
But I'm the guy everybody thinks I get told you're the poster child of success post injury and I'm like in my head
I'm like I'm like I'm a fucking bullshit or like that's how you feel and I'm like whether I am or not
I've been lucky and I've made a few decent decisions on for my own accord
And I am where I am through hard work and discipline and now what and now I feel like I'm losing it all because I have I have I've been faking it
Was this just a ride that I was on and now I'm done and I want to get off like the thing the things that go through your head
Now first of all I was never suicidal right never thought never crossed my mind
I don't know why it just didn't but I
I did have one thought one day where I went I think I understand why some guys take that path though
I had such a day one day where it was in December and I it wasn't like I thought oh, it things would be better if I was dead
It was like I just I was such a little moment and I went
I think I get it why sometimes guys take that path because it's just like you know like it was just such an extreme
Combination of everything from all sides and I went I think I kind of get it now because before I I don't know
But you but I've tried to figure a why some of the guys go with that route and I just can't
But that moment I went okay. I kind of get it and it was it wasn't like I thought
Solution for myself, but I I just there visit very quick. It was took about two minutes of in and out and it stuck with me though because I went
That's the first time I've ever had any thought like that right and then so my daughter's birthday is late December
and I miss that one too and then
New year's Eve and
I've already made plans to go and do an
Assessment that would tell me how terrible of an addict I am as
As an alcoholic because that's what you are you're an addict and I'm going to a kind of sort of and
My husband who's all over me. He's a great guy and I won't say his name here, but he knows who he is and he's a beautiful human being
And he's trying to get on top of me and Luke's trying to get on top of me and my mom and my ex and my friends
And they're all trying to just be like okay man like we get it now. We've heard
We've heard your calls loud and clear and how do we help you and then it's trying to like mitigate that and then
Well, it's you know, it's Christmas. I'll have a few drinks
I know I told the world this, but you know I can handle it. I'm not I'm not that bad and then the next morning
You're like oh man, but the New Year's Eve I had some company that came out because they're like we heard you
Man, we're here. It's New Year's Eve. Let's hang out. Let's be so tough fun
We'll have a few drinks. We're all here to keep an eye on you can't get that bad. We know who you are and the next morning. It's like I
Did what?
Because now all the pressures on now to get better and I was here in radio interviews where there
I was headline news and Ottawa for a couple days
Where they went. Wow real brave of him to say that now
How's he gonna get better guys are talking about me? I have to retire our
Our resigned from politics and Canada with the gun laws as they are a public said anyone can call in a threat on anybody who owns guns
Right so some
Gun hating citizen and I'm not
hating them for this. I'm just hating them for being a dick
Said oh I can get a prominent gun owners guns taken away if I call the police and say I think he's a threat to public safety
And that's all you have to do it's completely anonymous which is bullshit and anyone can do it against anyone got to gun owner
And so now the police call and they say listen we have to do investigation so like
So that actually happened so this was this was right before New Year's Eve
So I'm like freaking out. I am losing my shit and
Because I'm like I don't know how it works now they're very understanding but they have to do the check
They look once the investigation started
Real or not or
Substantiate it or not we got to go through steps one to Z
Okay, so they go and inspect the guns they have the guns are safe the guns are where they're supposed to be everything's locked
I have everything's proper
Dutata to talk to my family
Nope, he's never been threatening with them. They're la la la
And then like and then and then and then the New Year's Eve rolls around and I have that's terrible
This is the last I'd the last drop of booze I had was New Year's Eve
And
We started with a small bottle and I drank it all myself and
This past me you're easy just past New Year's Eve like so towards today 2024 to go 23 days ago and
The next morning I got a little bit of a lowdown about what I was like and I call him evil jodie
And he came out once in
2000 and
five after my first deployment to Afghanistan and before my second one where I got wounded
And I was bouncing at the time and I was you know having some a little bit too much fun in life
Maybe but I was also drinking too much for the wrong reasons at the time and a lot of us work as we had
The K and forces we hadn't dealt with you know combat a lot right like I said and a lot of us were green
When we went into Afghanistan the first time so
Maybe a lot of mid like you said a fair number of us me included were maybe
choosing the wrong ways
I was still meditating a lot so mitigated a little bit but this I called him evil jodie he came out
My friend my one one of my buddies who
Still talk to he's a police sniper now, but he keep pulled me aside and he said hey man like
I've never ever seen you actually that ever no matter how drunk you were what it was going on or how angry you were
Who pissed you off what the fuck was that about and I went oh
That sounds like grandpa or whatever
So I locked him in a cage and I used to joke that you know
Don't let the cave man out of his cage and then but that night so the 25 days ago or whatever was he got out
And I didn't hurt anybody and or anything and but I said things you don't shouldn't and I maybe
Made actions that you shouldn't yeah for me the biggest thing is when you you realize that you had no control over what's happening
And yeah, well, that's what I'm saying. I don't remember I did all these things. I said what to who?
Oh my god, and you're just like you're saying I and I called so I called one of the people that was there
And I said I am so sorry and he was like been there done that dude you got to get your shit together
I'll be here when you're done when you're ready or I'm here tomorrow
He was such a great guy about it and I went oh so the world doesn't hate you for being a fuck up and I that helped too
And we talked about this last night like who when you mitigate
Crisis David Letterman or Tiger Woods
Whoever like don't follow Tiger Woods book go with David Letterman
Oh, and explain what David Letterman did because I didn't
So yeah, so it in in in in in a nutshell David Letterman got he got cotton affair on his wife
David Letterman by the way is a is like a talk show host at night and
Well, you watch yeah, he's not anymore, but I guess he was and he was pretty popular at some point
Yeah, he was our individual. Some people don't know is a golf player so he yeah
If you haven't heard of him he's like yeah, he's like half black half tie and you know you
Swung a golf club pretty good for minute, but he got caught cheating on his wife too, but so David Letterman got a
Blackmail letter right before one of his shows and the guy said I know what happened
That it had a you haven't affair or something he had had one or he was having one and
It was like pay me $40,000 a week for the rest of my life or
Dis or something I'll tell the world and David Letterman went
All right, I fucked up and he went out and he's and I don't remember
I did see it, but I don't remember exactly how it went, but basically usually they do a monologue
These guys before they're showing he went instead of today's monologue
I'm gonna look into the camera and I'm gonna say I cheated on my wife and
She knows about it and we're working on it and somebody else found out and they thought they were gonna get money from me
So he looked in the camera and he went fuck you the police are coming to tear house right now and to the rest of you I apologize
I'm sorry I'm sorry I might have to my wife I apologize and I understand if this is a problem for us
So then we're all have to deal with it again
Because of who I am it's world news and he he owned it
He owned all of it and
The other day he interviewed this guy named Obama you might have heard of him on his new show on Netflix called I forget what the next guest or something
And he was on he's he still seen as a good dude right because he owned it and he and he worked through it and he and he didn't not talk about it
And then there's what Tiger Woods did which is run away hide
Not admitted anything and Tiger Woods went through four or five years of just complete chaos in his life
Before he finally even I think now he still places in the bottom 50 I think he's at the PGA
I don't know I don't know
He still plays but he probably just plays the pay the bills now. He was worth a billion dollars at one point and he lost at all because of not owning a fuck up
He probably stole it a lot a lot of it because his wife took half but regardless
Sponsors dropped him he himself as a human being couldn't look himself in the mirror. I'm sure right blah blah blah
So I said okay, well, this is my Tiger Woods or David Letterman moment like going on the radio I thought was it
Now we're two weeks later. Yeah, whatever it was yeah two weeks later. I'm like
Well, either I never drink again or I continue down the path of bullshitting myself into saying well, I'll just get better when I'm ready
And
This journey I've been on for since I left. What did I leave? I forget
Jan 18 or 19 I left Ottawa and I've just been driving I want to drive root 66 since I was a teenager and
You know like I talked to the kids I talked to Atlanta. I talked to my mom I talked to everybody that matter and I said I'll be back
First city council is January 31st after our Christmas break anyway
And I said I'll be back
I'm gonna go visit some people that are gonna look me in the eye and tell me if I'm fully shit or not
You guys being some of them and
When I get back
I'm gonna my therapist already have an appointment
I'm my
My doctors for my legs because I'm going back to basic training to learn how to use prosthetics again so I don't go through those issues again
I'm gonna
Talk about my addiction issues. I'm gonna talk about
Why I'm not I'm going back to the gym. I have a diet plan already. I have a trainer waiting
I'm
I'm going back to the basic I'm back. I'm a basic training to be human being again and I was I was laughing this morning listening to your show
About the basic training and marine core base and paris island because I was like
Fuck man. I just I keep doing this every three or four years. I got to go back and relearn what it's like to be jodimitic because I am
Evolving
Be I had to evolve beyond the soldier and then I had to turn to the citizen and then I out now
I'm returning into something else. I think because
I had a plan until I was 44 I thought at 25 years near me or 20 was 27 years
Retire become a contractor teach shooting for the rest of my life and just be that grumpy old guy that
You know well if you want to know about shoot and you talk about that
Be good decent money right? I didn't want to get rich. I just wanted to have pay my bills and hang out with my my
Dream retirement was going to be to hurt all pack as around on my horse with my rifle shoot coyotes and and listen to like gangster rap and read books like that was it
That was what I wanted to do
But life has a funny way of pointing you in directions that maybe you need to go in or you didn't know yet to go and
I'm back on the jockel podcast
You're just feeling my whole life and my soul out for everybody and I hope somebody you learn to so if we keep one troop from
Like listen if even if you're on the road where you know you're fucking up
Pull over
Call in air support like jocco said like
You got we have so many resources we don't know about and
You know we all I'm the lone wolf well even the lone wolf runs in a pack
And I think like that's how I've thought it like you know the soft guys in a world elf is but we're in
Teams, you know when I rolled in a team of three hardcore guys or it's me and my boys and
But we at the same time I knew I had artillery support. I had to air cover
I had this I had another sniper team cover in the flank over there and wrecky platoon over there and you never alone
And even last night like I
I felt bad I
I'm still in a t-shirt. I drove in all day from the t-shirt I worried the day before and he showed doc
I've never seen jocco dressed up and I'm like oh shit jocco was like gonna button down shirt
And he's wearing
Well, that's not good crazy. I had on a pair of jeans vans a t-shirt and a flannel shirt
You're just up
But I'm like I'm like okay, so I haven't seen him seen you in two years ish give her take a few months
We've talked but it's not like we've been on the phone for hours been like hey bro, what's going now like you know?
You were busy dudes. We kept in touch the way guys like us do but
We sat down and I'm like okay, do I eat dinner and then tell him tomorrow or?
Or and I just basically threw up all over you
And you and you were awesome and I love you for it and I appreciate it
But I needed that hour of just
Talking about myself and I felt bad about it took us I'm like I haven't even asked him how his kids are
You have I have friends that'll do you we're willing to do that and I've done that for hundreds of guys
But then when it's you doing the talking man, it's tough and I get it now. I get it now more than anything
So guys you need not you got to pull over you got to like you just got to take a knee
And let somebody else take point for a bit and that's just the way it is
You know how you were said you said you kind of understand when people
Feel suicidal
You know I know I know and I said that a bunch of times since it happened
But what's your question sorry like do you do you because I think about that too sometimes where
That's the only time I don't think about me. I'm thinking like other people like what is it take to be like you know
I'm gonna am my life my question is do you think that it's like
Like
That feeling is like it's almost like this immense boredom with that you know like you do you just don't have it's not like this pain
That I got to end it's more that like there's really no reason for me to
It's like you're going up this hill, but the hill isn't that steep, but it's just so
It's never ending yeah, you know, I think that's part of it. Yeah, like it's it's like from what I've read the few suicide notes
I've seen when you know when you find like we had one
I don't know if I talked about it on the show last time we always teach you on a sniper course and one of the guys
I was talking to him one moment about what we're gonna do Saturday because they're all guys you work with right
It's it's kind of like I'm sure it's the same as the seals a lot of them that come on to sniper course
Anyway, our guys you've picked out of the platoons and and then you know even if they pass
You still have a meeting where you go okay, do we really want to work with that go guys like I know we gave them the badge
But are we gonna let them into the teams
And then so this is one of the guys so you know, I'm getting to know him a little bit more
He's from the other battalion and yeah cool man
I know this girl in town and this and that okay right on and
20 minutes later like we're like what the fuck did he go?
We're doing roll call we're the fuck is he and we found him hanging from one of the you know the pavilion's there out in the training area
Forget shade during lectures
So he was out there and we find this letter on his pillow and I'm reading and it's about they they feel like they're in the Spain that's never ending
Yeah, and I don't think it's bored him. I think it's just this
It's the no light at the end of the tunnel feeling yeah, yeah as you were asking that question
That the word I wrote down was was because we've been talking about it
We've heard from it from the last couple podcasts that we did and it's the same thing you just said it's hope
So when you don't have any hope that this is gonna end when you don't see any light at the end of the tunnel and
Like I said when you're when you're stuck in this storm and everywhere you look
You don't see the light at the end of the tunnel. You don't see that this cloud ends somewhere
And it's a fun-during lightning will subside you just are in a storm no matter where you look
There's a storm and they say you know if there's no hope of getting out of this storm and I think that's where that's where they start and look
Having those thoughts luckily though when it when the thought entered my mind like I get it and what I'm
Again, I never thought of suicide, but I had the thought go through my brain where I go I get why some people might see this as an option
Yeah, because I did see like because I'm texting him. I'm texting Rob. I'm texting
You know my my buddies and in the canceph
I'm
My regimental friends my my mom my dad my brother
Most of the people that should be aware there's a problem. We're aware
So I still had lots of light coming in but it was my now it's your choice. Are you gonna go towards it? Are you gonna stay
Floating where you are I guess is is a way like are you gonna reach for the line or are you gonna just sit there
Like it's just at an arm reach. Yeah, you know I talk about detachment all the time and this is like another situation where
Obviously when you're when you're
Rapped up in those kind of emotions right you you you can't see anything else
Somebody that's outside there they're perfectly clear can help guide you out of that even though it's gonna be hard
And there's things that are not gonna stand and all that but they can at least they know they're outside that and they can see it just like on the battlefield
Some of that's at elevation, you know you get building. I look at our safer position. Yeah, some guys go left go left go left
And they go right like fuck yeah
So if you can reach out to somebody that can that has a little bit better
Altitude on the battlefield that you're in
Then and if you can reach out to them say hey, man
I can't see what's going on all I see is darkness point me in the right direction and they're gonna tell you some
Dom's shit
Like hey, okay, let's get you to a doctor. Let's get you stop drinking. Let's get you in the gym again
They're gonna tell you some stuff that sounds stupid
It sounds well it sounds way too easy. Yeah sounds way too easy. Oh, you think it's that easy for a
Focus like that, but you know what I what I like what you said is you're like man
I keep having to go back to boot camp
Yeah, and it's like that's really if you think about what boot camp is what is boot camp? They're like okay
Put your shoes on like this make your bed like that eat this food do this workout
That's what they do they get you on the program that lead it's it leaves the success and it it leads to
Having your life somewhat sorted out and once you get that then you look around you go. Okay now these bigger problems
If I can control these little things I can control this this thing that's a little bit bigger
And if I can control that I can control this thing that's a little bit bigger
If I can control that that I control this other thing that's a little bit bigger
But when you're not you know to same thing I talk about all the time with the with the chesions and the Russians not you know
Failing on that first war and it all started when they stop shaving all to same thing with your personal life when you when you
Disregard these these fundamental things that you would do in boot camp
Yeah, when you start letting them go well then if the little things fall apart then the bigger things fall apart
But contrary to that when you put the little things together you can start putting the bigger things together
And I said you're doing this whole podcast. I've talked about what did I stop doing? I stopped oh
Well fuck I'm gonna eat pizza tonight instead of my prescribed diet that I've the eight for years and it makes me feel good and keeps me in good shape
Because fuck it today and then next day. It's like why did it yesterday? I'm gonna have cocoa puffs with breakfast
And it was just a downward spiral of I don't need to go see my therapist just all the way on the other ten is town
And I know my life sucks right now
Don't somebody to tell me that my life sucks. I know hey what do you talk about with a therapist?
What do they talk about what do you do there so I've been assuming you've never no
Honestly like you just bounce life off them or what I'm saying is if you got a guy this listening right now
That's like you know is it embarrassing not even embarrassing if you got a guy this listening right now
That's going well what the hell would a therapist tell me why would I not just
You know right in a journal or you do something like that do that too. Okay. I write in a journal which I again which I stopped doing again
The writing in the journal is like yourself check because I go back I was reading through my
I kept a journal throughout the year kind of but you know not as often as you should
And I was reading through it and I'm like wow I'm even bullshitting myself in this my last therapy session which is right before the downward
Angle started
He said a few things to me that needed to be said and I kind of took it to heart
I guess I like oh shit, but basically he said you're putting a lot of work into being jodimetic
And I was like fuck you man you don't even know you don't even know but
Like listen like this is over a year ago and right now I'm like I'm still like out just that
hurt but I he was right and
It took me this whole time to get to the point where I'm leveling off now, but therapy is you know
I think I said this to you last night. It's like Tiger Woods. Okay Tiger Woods bad example on how to mitigate crisis
But how to golf coach is whole career and guess when he started sucking when he stopped seeing his golf coach
No one is an expert on life
I didn't have PTSD when I got wounded. I was cleared two different therapists and a psychiatrist both said
Clear to PTSD massive depression which is normal for losing even a loved one right and when they you when you lose
A limb they say it's like losing a loved one
So two loved ones died when it but whatever whatever
But PTSD can come back
We in the can't do we call it operational stress injury which I was diagnosed with
Which is like an injury so if you spray in your ankle or break your ankle it's an injury
One heals differently from the other right left alone. They both lead the failure
Your ankle will completely deteriorate and fall off and have to be cut out of the body or replaced if you don't treat it
If you're um I don't know what you guys call a Humvee or what do you call it truck? Yeah Humvee Humvee Hummer
If you're a hummer blows an axle do you yell at it and tell this toughen up and go have a fucking drink
No, you sent it in for fucking maintenance
And I used to say this to troops all the time. I'll say it again
And I've said it before I've said this to kernels and generals like
Dude man if you need maintenance go it go to the fucking maintenance shop
Which is in our case the fucking mine guy
I had it talk with the chief of defense staff which is our
Not sective
Chief of staff the chairman of the joint chiefs. Yeah, and we were talking about combat units and I said well, you know
And we were both getting on the floss flasophical side of things
Samurai used to meditate and practice and they do practice calligraphy to perfect it and the tea ceremony
Warrior monks of Europe would meditate would pray and fast
The Mongolian hordes even had their ceremonies where they
Purge the demons and let it it what do our modern soldiers do?
There's no self reflection. There's no meditation. There's no we got to start from basic training
I've said and I don't know if I said this on the last podcast if I did I apologize
I forgot my own advice again
What's rice?
Rice for your body. Oh rest out ice
Compression elevation that's taught to you the first day of basic training because you're not
I remembered it. Ah right, but that's your vehicle, right? And your vehicle of your body that gets you into combat
Which is where the unit needs you which is where your country wants you what's rice for the mind
And this is where we all is a society have to go back and think about these things like
It is it is it is it is it is but this is my point
So when you go to a therapist if you have no
Juditsu in your life you don't have
Surfing you don't have calligraphy you don't know how to meditate
This could be the beginning of you learning how to be of the beginning of learning rice for your mind
And that's how I look at it, but even still
I know enough about medicine that I can take care of myself for the most part without going to the doctor
But guess what now and then I hit something and I go fuck I need a doctor
So therapy doesn't mean you have to go every week on
border like clockwork
But have someone that you're
That's your therapist or your psychiatrist or whoever whatever level you need or you qualify for in your benefits
And that doesn't mean you go see them all the time. I had a guy that I saw when I had to
But a lot of it is up to you to the individual is still a big part of this eye as an individual
This is where it hit me really hard and when you heard the emotion of my voice on the radio that day
I stopped even paying attention to myself
And I as an individual failed myself my friends my sorry myself my family
So my daughters my ex my mom my dad everyone who loves me for who I am no matter what I do and then I failed everyone around me that
My friends you guys and this is how you feel because I didn't as an individual take ownership of the problem
So now I am and I'm going back to therapy and going back to the gym and back on my diet
I know I don't look at but hey, I'm on the road and you know those little powdered donuts and little thing with a coffee while you're driving the
Licious outstanding
Talking about the chocolate covered ones are the problems those ones too. I found those ones at a gas station in like Texas somewhere and they are on that
Bro, we don't have those things in Canada. They have them in America but Duncan don't it donuts?
Might be better than Tim Horton's I'm gonna go ahead and say they're better. Oh, and any Canadian
They want to fight me Tim Horton's own by Brazilian company now. So whatever the point is
I'm getting back to that life that led me that kept me in check because
Getting your legs blown off as a rough go
And I'll tell you that right now, but it's not impossible
But like any injury I have a spot in my back like mid back just below the shoulder blades that I hurt when I was 14
And I felt it in basic I felt it's hurt my whole career, but you work on the muscles around it and you learn to mitigate its impact on your daily life
Mental injuries are the same and I can tell you I was cleared of PTSD which is like the extreme mental injury
But I did have a mental injury and I forgot that and then I had physical injuries on top of it that I basically
Ignored you know like even the mayor of Ottawa. He'd be like hey, Jodie your limpant today
What's going on? I didn't think you're gonna make it to this event. This is before I the wheels fell off
I go yeah, I'm area
You know I was feeling a little Spain and I know I don't have to be here today, but then I remembered yeah
I'm not a pussy so I'm here and he'd laugh like oh Jodie you're you're unique politician
That's for sure
But what I'm saying is like I'm too stupid to stay home tonight so that tomorrow morning
I can feel better and go to the gym play with my kids like that you know what I mean like it's
Two to two tough to be that dumb. Yeah, so a lot of this clearly is
ego
Oh bro, he goes on mother fucker and it's funny because it's not about this all time, but like obviously you wouldn't be who you were and
Have done what you've done if you didn't have an ego that drove you that want made made you want to be I mean
Why would anyone subject themselves to going to sniper school of course? Yeah, it sounds like a cool job
It's it's a shitty job. It sucks it's hard to do but guess what your ego you like I want to do that
I want you to best donny wellberg shows you the sexiest part of the job with your shoot bad guys. Yeah, which is like so rare by the way like
Yeah, the rest of the job
So so so you wouldn't have done I mean that the books the politicians the podcast everything that you've done
There's there's some element of ego that drives it obviously you want to serve and it will you wouldn't be if it was just pure ego
You wouldn't be able to do it either because you you have to have a will to serve and a desire to serve your country and your brothers in arms
So that's true, too, but
To take the next level you got to have some ego driving and then what that's that thing that can drive you to success
Can also
Drag you down when you start saying I can do anything I can get through this I can gut through this
Yeah, you need help I can keep on this path I can quick drink whenever I want those are all things
Well, you're your your your ego is your biggest enemy
But you are your own biggest critic as well
Jaco, I'm sure you have these thoughts like you're any other human being like if I fail anyone today the person I don't want to fail is myself
Because you have an expectation of yourself and I know I know enough about you and I you know
We are the enough of the same guys, much as we are different that the biggest person
I'm trying to live up to expectations are my own
So when you get up at 4 am every day and God damn it
I wish I could but I'm not built that bro. I like to sleep
I don't have to if I don't want to do anyway, but
Like see listen right now like I could up at 330 if I fuck a 1 to okay
I just don't want to I don't have to I can get all my shit done in eight hours, okay?
Jaco but your ego is the one that goes I can do that and then your critic is the one that goes when you can't bitch
And
If you fail the first critic that's there looking in is the one when you look in the mirror and you go
I would do it man. I would fucking do I would look in the mirror. I stopped like
Like you know I like I keep a bit of a beard most times my beard got big and then it started growing in here
And that's when you know something's up with somebody
No, I'm serious right now. I know that's why I would not look in the mirror
Yeah, because when I looked in the mirror I I saw someone who went you drank last night again didn't you fucking loser
Good job. Yeah, I want you shower and go and work
So this this started coming in because even if I looked in the mirror is just enough to be okay
I'm not a complete mess
Run out the door my hair grew
It's it's it's weird man. I can I'm I'm trying to write this down because I I even if it doesn't come out for anybody but myself
It's
I didn't go through with the legs losing the legs and I did go through losing my legs again, but
Whole other thing bunch of stuff was happening like realizing
I know I said the soldier is dead, but
Maybe I didn't really realize
And I had all these people looking up to me and also
Turning to me to have okay, hey my buddies and in trouble go talk to Jody this guys that she's in trouble like and you're taking on all this other stuff and
Honestly man self
I don't know what they call it self care. I think is what they call it self care is your first priority
Self-made we call it self-made but yeah, that's like your first person you got to take care of yourself and luckily my daughters are so awesome that
You know, I talked to them on the trip every day and like okay when you get back. Yeah, we'll we'll kick it off right where we left it off, but
There the first ones that are gonna forgive you if you ask for it and
So I've asked my daughters. I told them daddy's going through some stuff right you notice they're both like yeah
Because kids don't get they don't give it shit. I call you got kids, right? Yes. Yeah, how many you got again?
Yeah, they're the first ones gonna tell you when you they were the first ones to tell me like hey
I'll come in not coming around as much as you said you would
God damn it daddy's really busy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You've always been busy. We want to go to the park
But yeah, man. I'm on I'm just trying to rebuild everything and and stay stay on the path finally
I think I hope when I'm 50 I'm not going through something again
Because by then I'm just gonna be too old and want to deal with shit. You know, I'm like I'm not saying that's old
I'm just saying like you should have your shit together by the time you're 50 I think
Or maybe I will but at least I'll have these lessons learned over the last
Since 2007 when you're trying to write these down you mean you're writing down what you're going through right now
I'm writing it down and also because I am in the position that I am in right you know where we're authors now
I've out of anything else like we talked we talked about this last night doesn't make us artists but kind of does
writing is an art
But people
If people can learn from what I'm going through and I know others have written books and done the gone through the exact same thing
But we all have a unique way of presenting things
Maybe I turn it into a lesson
Maybe I turn it into something I read like I've read your book
Four times since it came out. I've rereading Tim Ferriss's book again for our work week because
That's the direction of life that I would like to go in politics or not like
Doing it your way but in a way that's smarter and not harder and in the army right we learn
There's the refmart way. There's the hard way and then there's the army way or in the navy. I'm sure it's the same
And sometimes none of them make sense
But you get it done
But I you know I want to spend more time on myself my kids my loved ones my friends and
I think and I said this sounds a little conceited and a little bit egotistical and a little bit selfish
But I've realized I getting my legs blown off maybe I've earned the right to just do kind of what I want a little bit more than I did in the last 10 years
And I want to hang out with my friends do something constructive for society still but
If I want to go shoot I want to go shoot if I want to drive my car across America
Well, and I just want to do that and I think I've earned the right to have a little bit of flexibility in life to just throw my kids in the car and go
Well, I actually know you've earned that right and I told you that the first day of match you when you were talking about what you were doing and I was like man
You're you're doing way more than I'd be doing you know
I'd be I'd be spending a lot of time my kids, but you know you have goals and aspirations and and you've achieved those
You know and you've done a great job up there and and so that's good, you know, it's awesome to see and if that
Change directions and now you can focus on you know taking care of your family take care of your self
Which yeah have you earned it? Hell yeah, you've earned it. Well
I think what we always forget and what I forgot and I've continuously have to remind myself of is I'm the beginning and the end of everything in my world
And that sounds like a self
What do you call itself?
Self-fulfilling prophecy no no no
Self-envolved a little too self-envolved, but if I'm not up and ready to go at 8 a.m. my kids don't get to school in time
And if my kids are late their teachers met at them and then it's a snowball in their life
If I'm late they wonder where I am if if I'm not at the office my staff has to tell someone hey where's
Counts are medic
He's not here right now. Where is he? I don't know or they may have to make a bullshit excuse and even if you tell them your job is the life for your boss
No, no, it's not your job is beyond to work on time joddy
So self
Care and self help and all that stuff is and taking care of yourself is the beginning of taking care of everyone that you feel you have a duty to
Yeah, and that's
Ultimately what I want to talk about here and what I want
You know, so you know when I when I bust your balls about getting up at 330 the morning
That's what jocco does to make sure that everything in jocco's life
Falls in a place for those you have four kids bro. Yeah. I don't know how you keep up with them all
I only have two and I can barely do it and and so what I'm saying when I go back to my having my legs blown off
It earns me the right to be a little bit selfish about what I do with my time
Well, I'm gonna be selfish and take care of myself more
Which I haven't for a decade
Well, I would expand that to to really to everybody
I'm gonna tell you what I mean
You owe it to yourself everybody whether you've been wounded or not right wherever you are in life because the fact of what you just said
You gotta remember this if you don't take care of yourself
You can't take care of the other people around right and and so you have to you have to take care of yourself
You know my simple thing and my wife knows this about me like if I don't work out I'm
I'm not a good I'm not I'm not the same person right?
Good person yeah, but but really if I'm not taking care of my health
Then everything else kind of starts falling apart and so yeah, you gotta take care of yourself
And if you don't take care of yourself then you can't take care of the people that you care about and and so that's the duty really
And that's what I wanted to talk about a little bit today and what I was saying before about if you're feeling it pull over
And that's the thing like you can't expect anything of anyone else if you can't
If you can't show up a work on time like why should you your staff and if you don't take care of yourself and then why should you expect to take care of anyone else and
We all have support you know and I'm I know I'm I own home hammer in this little too hard, but dude
I'm I'm learning a hard lesson here and I'm trying to avoid we all I think have to learn it
But there's like there's you can learn it harder than others. I think I'm learning it the really hard way
Because I am a public person like like private and can't we call them blogging's blogging is like Smith in the Army
So if blogging is having a rough time he doesn't have to go on the radio until the world
He doesn't have to go on the jacco podcast and tell the world, but he has to tell somebody
And that's the biggest thing you think you think it's scary to go to a therapist who is a trained professional like
Think of a therapist like going to the rifle range and learning from the master sniper
That's what you're doing you're going to learn how to shoot except it's for fit for your mind
Would you not go to the range to learn from a master sniper if you want to be a better shot?
Of course you fucking would I I'm a master sniper and I'd go to the range and learn from master sniper right now
That's what a therapist or psychiatrist or psychologist or counselor any of them are professionals in
The mental game of life
Now I'm not saying all are equal as well if you don't like one
Fire them and get a different one
But start there and start looking for the help that's available and don't put it all on yourself and again
If you think that's embarrassing going to a stranger, which is actually pretty easy when you actually get in the room and start talking
You find you might they might have to tell you to shut up because of the hours up
Try going on the radio or the jacco podcast or writing a book like you know
I put out a lot of my words in that book too and I'm still learning and
I've got all these resources so you know, it's not it's not it's not it's not no one's too proud no one's too tough
And I'm both done like talking because I was something fun right now. Oh, like
No, it's all good man and I think you know
As we were talking and I didn't I didn't know if we were gonna do a podcast or not when you came down here
I didn't know if you want to talk about any of this stuff or we're just gonna hang out
I appreciate this because the whole drive I've been thinking and talking to myself and listening to other podcasts
I'm like I need to do this
Yeah, and
Really like what you're saying is gonna it's obviously it's gonna help people especially the idea
And I'm glad you talked about this a little bit you kind of threw it in there
But like looking at yourself in the mirror right looking at yourself in the mirror and saying to yourself
You know what I need some fire support here. I'm gonna reach out and I'm gonna get it from some people
And there's not a damn thing in the world wrong with that and
That's how you
sort of
That was the thing that was the thing that made you go okay. I need help. I'm gonna go make this happen
And so it maybe that can help some other people that
Aren't feeling too good right now go look in the mirror and admit to yourself you got some problems
Maybe the problems are a little bit bigger than you we've been in combat situations that were bigger than us
You have to call and fire support. There's nothing wrong with it. There's no shame in it go make it happen
Yeah, and and take care of yourself take ownership
Extreme ownership. I like the way you think
I
You know
I think that's a good place man. I think that's a good place to chill if we want to talk about something different
We can do that really easily all we do is we just ask echo to talk for a little bit
Yeah, good answer to floss
Okay, go Charles. Yes, you
You know we want to talk about something good
Can you talk about something good like maybe how to support ourselves and if if they want someone wants maybe how someone could support
This podcast if they want
It's your choice. We should yeah
Joccal krill oil and joint warfare here's the thing you know how like my joint I've been hurting me lately
Yeah, and sometimes you can be able to do some joint warfare for sure. Yeah, it helps not in a non drug
Farm a suitable way. It's good. Yeah, it's interesting
But it does work especially if you're getting physical and whatnot
General joint disintegration or degeneration degeneration not disintegration. Yeah. I don't I don't know how much you tell
With disintegration nonetheless Jocquas some supplements. They're good supplements. They're four-year joints
One is krill oil super krill oil
Yeah, that was called joint warfare. Look. Oh, so I mean could join yes
Curcumin and curcumin that's for like cardillage. It's all right. It's joint war
No, because you know like when you're manniscus or like your elbows stop saying such big words just talk
I'm the brown telling you this is this is the true real deal
So if I take this the knee I tweaked the other night
This will help it with the manniscus around my kneecap. Yes, the the joint warfare. Well. I'm into it. Yeah, fully
Also what we kind of talked about earlier
Jocquad discipline pre workout. We call it pre workout, but it's a pre mission because that's cognitive enhancers
Pre mission I love this
Jody's checking it out right up about it nonetheless that's good that's good for anything you're about to do so we say pre workout
It can be pre study
pre exam pre test pre
uh pre podcast podcast whatever night whatever you like it's good
Unless you can take one or two scoops don't be a pussy take two scoops guys. I come out. Let what do we say in here? Sorry sorry
I had a real
Long night the other night of of work
And I took three
What do you normally take two two so what do you what do you weigh in out 220?
No
It's probably
230 230 and so two scoops is enough for you
Yeah, yeah, okay, so I'll stick to two scoops for now
But I might ramp it up to four if I really have to be careful
Make sure you have something to do
Like a project like don't just take like great take yeah, that's a great time
Yeah, if you have to write and then do you find it does it make you jittery? No no, no, because it's so it's a smooth
But you got the energy yeah, it's got the caffeine's pretty low the caffeine is very low
It's the same caffeine as jocquawaiti the same amount so per scoop so you'll get double that
But it's not it's a 15 milligrams so
It's meant to not make you all jittery because you can't that's not good everything else
I'm reading in here and what little I do know about nutrition
This is all stuff for focus and long-term like energy release. Yes
You know anything missing that I don't know science is would be vitamin
Is that in there?
I'm missing it. I think so turning 40 means I have to wear glasses now too by the way
Like I wrote that I want to small to my perfect us in case sniper vision
I think is good for long distance, but now I'm like my dad
Yeah, you got to find the sweet spot that's what it is
There it right because your eyes can't like
L too or whatever
I'll be taking can I have a case you have that right straight at all this right here actually that's good and surprisingly taste good
What an expect chocolate would be like make a taste like very hyper about making things taste
Here's things don't they face like crap then life is hard food should be tasty. Yeah, I dig it and I
Understand that but you would why do they talk then you can drink?
So you're saying it's out of character from me to one in line
I think that's the dichotomy you because I heard that before even like with you said you don't drink coffee
You're like I just I don't like the taste of coffee. Why would I drink it? Oh my oh
All right, you know like there's a week that chocolate's got a week
Not if you don't like the taste you don't like the taste right in a fucking
I bet when I did drink my friend you drink beer because that's Canadian is the drink beer
And I'm like beer tastes like shit. I'll drink cider. Oh the apple juice. I'm like it's got more alcohol
And then beer bitch like it's
What would he like if he didn't like coffee? He likes white tea. I think white tea sucks
But I'm not jacco we got this I'm making this protein power right now and like criteria number one was
Yeah, it has to be good protein and all that but the strong second criteria was it's got a taste so damn good
Yeah, which
You forget your drink and protein the first sample tasted really good like I was shocked at how good the first
And we tweaked it a little bit the second sample came back it tastes even better
I mean laying on how much sugar we talking there's no sugar. Oh no, there's no sugar
That used to be the trick. Yeah, this protein's so good. Yeah, but it's a good sugar
No, no sugar and then the we've got one more coming back, but the second iteration of it tastes delicious
And yeah samples left no
Yes, but he's like he's like well, you know, I don't live really like protein powder
No, I'm like bro, this is nothing to do with you wanting to drink protein powder
You'll be drinking this like you want a drink out. It's good. We'll be like this. It's so good. Yes, yeah
All right, so we'll see about that one working get all the shit echo the proof is gonna be in the pudding as they say
origin main dot com that's where you get it also at origin main dot com you can get you will get
Keys rash cards this is for due to by the way. Oh, yes, sir made in America
I know Jody is from Canada better than maiden summer else
Yeah, I love a can we don't have time to make these and stuff like that make it in America
There's ten times more people down here. Yeah, I dig it and
All the stuff on there is made in America. It's good go there see if you want something get something good way to support also fit in his gear
Jockel that a new kettlebell that is heavier than mine is it his head is it is it your little head that you got on this
Might as well be dude. That is the greatest if nothing else comes from this this little avatar of you
I want jockel proof. I want like an emulate of your head. Yeah, they sure it has one right in the back
Okay, don't go up done. Yeah, it's good. Yeah, the kettlebell should be his head because the reason he got it was because I had a heavier kettlebell
By happens dense by the way
I think I can't say everyone just sorry is this a kettlebell like a buy from jocco? No, or this is just jocco bottom
I was about to say which reminds me every time I'm about to talk about kettlebells a kettlebells
I have you know the ones from on it. Yeah, I got all of them. Yeah, me too except I don't have the big foot one
Two, but that was like that's one of my eggs. I can't pick that one up is just too heavy. Yeah, I'm prosthetics
Yeah, no, I dig it and I haven't picked up anything for over here anyway
So that's what I was trying to imply to jockel that like since mine is heavy
I can pick it up. He can't pick it up. Etc. That's two pounds everything
So that's why he got the heavier one Roger that. Yeah, I'm tracking now. I'm tracking six pounds
Yeah, congratulations. Yeah, because this was a custom made kettlebell no kind of from rogue fitness rogue right yeah
My boys at rogue fitness, but it's like made America. It's like the boring round one. You know, you said you have the
I got the ones yeah, that's why I thought you meant the jocco was coming out with with a kettlebell
I should obviously it's gonna be shaped like jocco's had should that's my that's my because they could do that and now
I think a product was just born. Yeah, maybe actually someone someone said that come on. Okay. Anyway. I agree
It's the longest commercial ever, but it's not a commercial you we deviated from the commercial
Roger, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No, we're supposed to do that. Okay. It's part of the deal right
I know I forgot. I told you I'm in basic training for life again nonetheless back to the kettlebells if you get kettlebells
You know, wait, it's not competitive with your friend or if it's competitive with your friend
Whatever the ones from on it. That's the cool ones. Jodi as a whole set. I have the whole set if you have the whole set
You're cool like us not like jocco also when you get jodies new book
Of course joclas book any of the books we read or go over on the podcast
I made it easy for you got a section on the website. Yeah books for the website got them all listed by episode by the way
Nice click through there get them through there real easy good way to support as well. I'll take it out
I'm just saying sorry real quick
Unflinching the makeup of Canadian sniper and everyday heroes. Yeah, my two books. They'll both be on the website
Right down your website. I'll be link yeah, and they are available through Amazon and what's the Kindle there comes on Kindle
Kindle that's Amazon to I think yeah everywhere at like
Audio book yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, well I'll have it all in the website
So yeah, when you get that bone click through there. It's a way easier for you. That's good way to support
If you want to continue shopping on Amazon to buy your
Weedwackers and what else we buy in Amazon go ahead do that to good way also
Subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already seems normal
Seems obvious iTunes if you want to subscribe is for subscribing those it's more about like what you listen to you listen to iTunes
Yeah, that's what it's exclusively. I'm right some people they listen to Google play can you subscribe on Google play though?
I don't know
Okay, that's when I was getting that I don't know where else I get so sure it's the same thing. Yes, I do that and now there's different apps now
Yeah, like they're basically
I mean different stop you're confusing this is okay consider this way and I this I'm new to this too
Okay, where iTunes when you think podcast I I pod podcast so podcast or exclusive to iTunes
It just feels that way right where do you listen to podcast on iTunes?
Obviously here's the thing podcast the podcast just because iTunes has it's like if you watch
If I just went to the website what your website again?
Jockel podcast.com
So if I go to joga podcast.com could I listen straight from the podcast from the story from the website? Yes on my computer. Yes
Bob Jericho boom there it is here and
I did not know yeah, there's basically all these different ways to listen to it and if whatever way you choose to listen to it
There's where you subscribe
In the event of these things offering the subscribe option which I think they all do I'm not sure cuz I don't explore all of them
It's just hotworks so what I'm saying is if you want to subscribe subscribe good way to support also on YouTube
Which we have a YouTube channel by the way? Jolty Middick right you that not just the video version of this podcast but
excerpts and various
creative
videos
Here in there and some outtakes by the way
Not many but you know if you I'll put more up there also
Jockel is a store it's called jockel store
Jockel store.com obviously that's where we get or we make these shirts Jolty see this shirt Jockel has on right now
The victory MMA in fitness. Yeah. He always says that shirt on by the way
He does that well not last night. That's why I was
There was underneath my plan Roger that yeah, I was gonna say how did you even recognize that's why I wore my friends
So this is a tactical beaver shirt and it's a Canadian company started by can't so off guys
Yeah, dude. I was gonna wear this last night
But I didn't I thought Joggle would show up in T-shirt so I stayed in a T-shirt
Yeah, yeah, and anyway, so now he's in a T-shirt and I'm in the college. You're all dressed up
Yeah, man anyway
That's a tactical beaver was my last podcast if you listen yeah, they were on the show. It's good. It's pretty dope
You know what else is dope the shirt Jockel is on and the shirt
I have on with Jockel's head on it and if you want this shirt
Jockel's door.com. There's a lot of shirts on there. I have a green and black one in my suitcase bag in the hotel of that one
I thought it'd be weird where and you're shirt
Yeah, I thought so but there's a deeper meaning
I think the fact that Jockel's head is on my shirt, but and I'm sitting there. You're part of the show
So you got to wear it. Oh, I'll wear it in the house where the echo shirt sometime. Yeah, there's an echo shirt. Yeah, there's my name
Five immediately. I have four friends in myself that want that shirt. Oh, all right there you go. You got it
Sure, man. I've been I've been on drugs since May
Basically, so you got to unplug sometimes and that's the you know it and that's going back. Yeah, I think plug
I'm going off Facebook while personal. I'm gonna keep the business side, but you know personal stuff is good
Anyway finish what you're doing. I'm sorry. I know you're part of what we're doing
I'm not gonna read a list of things that you should or should not do
I'm gonna ask you about a mess, Jockel about it. Jockel told me hurry up. I may or may not hurry up
Whatever that's how it works. That's how it always works. None the last Jockel store.com
In you sure you want
I mean that's it. I'm gonna go right after the show. Yes, there's also some patches on there some hoodies
Rashcards hats
Women stuff on there kids stuff on there good good
Benees a beanies are on their way. So if you go like well, you figure well
Beanie's could very well be on there. They're on there. Do you wear a beanie better?
Jago when it's cold outside just what it's cold out. It's not a fashion. It's a cool
Okay, I don't know anything just check out here to win then here to win no fashion no sure it looks good
Dobra for sure anyway. Jockel store.com. I'm not saying goodbye something. I'm not saying that be sure
But if you like something get something good with a support. Also, I don't know if you know about this you might I don't know psychological warfare
Is that we're gonna be all I mean? I know what it is. Okay. Is this if something it's a new one of Jockel's names?
Yeah, so psychological warfare is an album that we created with tracks
Jockel track. Ah play list. Yes a playlist. Yeah, I prefer Malk's tape. Yeah, that makes tape of Jockel's heart
Essentially, but here. It's for a specific reason right right it's not him playing the ukulele
Because you can lay you know
Indeed it's him telling you how to get through certain weak moments
Oh, it is his his mom his videos
No, no, no more specific so here's what it is. Okay. I'm actually glad you don't you don't know the specific of it
Because I mean you can talk about it for 28 minutes. It's actually number one on iTunes by the way
But you know, oh that yeah, I downloaded that I never listened to it though. Sorry, bro
You don't need it. I just wanted to see you. My friend. Yeah, you gave the support. Yeah. That's a lot
But I probably should have let it support you too. I probably should have really what it's for yeah to support you
I used to you know like you know when you
Work out and you don't feel like working or you go to work out and you don't feel like I fell in for last 18 months
Yeah, I'll do it tomorrow
Yeah, I've been saying that since last October. All right with you. Well, they were 2016. I was saying that so they got I thought that was my biggest weakness
I come to Jockel. That's the way you do when you don't feel like working out. I mean, I know cool your top
Job is do I work out. Yeah, and it'll know but there's more to it than that. It's not that simple
You know and he explained it. I said, you know what we're gonna do. We're gonna record that
And always that's that was the birth of the psychological warfare
Exactly what it is. I should I did download it actually when it came out
I just I forgot I even had it look at the tracks
Here's what you do look at the tracks and be like because it's not just missing workout. It's like procrastination
Uh
I'm gonna throw it that now. Yeah, so I got my black belt and procrastination bro. Yeah, so consider one that you're like okay
Not only will it help it a 100% get you through it right you that
It's been the case for me anyway get it you can get that on iTunes of course and anywhere where they sell
MP3s Amazon music whatnot
It's a good one
Couple other things on Amazon you can get Jockel white tea. It's no big deal
Unless you want to deadlift 8,000 pounds minimum than you drink jockel white tea and you're there no questions asked
100% guaranteed
Great if you want to get some books you can get jodie midics books. There's two of them unflinching
The making of a Canadian sniper and also his latest book everyday heroes which is war stories
from the generations
Edited by jodie you can get way the warrior kid so you can teach kids to do the right things in their lives
You know things like
Beyond the path don't let me say
Dispening goes freedom field manual
that book
Yeah, it's about
Getting on the path and staying on the path. That's what it's about not gonna say anything else about that one
I will accept for that the audio version of that book is not on audible it is on
Anywhere you can get an MP3
Which means iTunes Amazon music Google play and then of course the first book extreme ownership
Combat leadership there's a new version out. It's black. It makes it a little bit cooler
You can get that
Learn how to lead
Also beyond the books in the podcast if you need leadership
Let's say leadership guidance and direction at your company at your business or at your team
I have a leadership and management consulting company. It's called echelon front and that is what we do we come to your organization
We assess the situation
And we get problem solved through leadership
It's me it's my brother-lave babbling that road extreme ownership with me
Who was one of the platoon commanders that served with me in the battle of Ramadi?
It's JP to now
who was the
Point man and the lead sniper of
Delta platoon in the battle of Ramadi. It's Dave Burke who was
an F-18 Marine Corps fighter pilot top gun pilot top gun instructor top gun senior instructor
F-16 pilot F-18 pilot F-35 pilot F-22 pilot first
He sounds like he's pretty good his job. He's not bad. He's the first
Operational squadron commander for the F-35
He's the only man in the world qualified to fly all those aircraft
But none of that matters because what he did was cool was he was on the ground with us in the battle of Ramadi as a
Anglico team leader
With his team and was with what what is an Anglico?
It's it's the guy's at call for fire. They like like your J attack. Yeah, they're J attacks, but the Marine Corps has Anglico
But they call it an air naval gun fire liaison Roger that. Yep, and that's what he did for us outstanding guy
He's been on the podcast number 16 to number 69 I believe
So he's part of the echelon front team as well also
On top of that there's the mustard it is
The leadership seminar with us the echelon front team again
In 2018 we're only doing two musters people think we're going on a rock and roll tour
We're not going on a rock and roll tour not going city to city is not gonna happen in Cleveland
It's not gonna happen in Milwaukee. It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. It's Andy Eagle this year
It's a little bit too close. It's gonna happen in Washington, DC May 17th and 18th
So that's where you go if you're on the east coast east of the Mississippi you come to DC
So you're with today
May 17th and 18th
If you're west of the Mississippi
You come to San Francisco October 17th and 18th that's it like I said we're not going anywhere else so
The reason is because we don't have time to do them. It's to get all the echelon front team together and set it all up
It's very hard to do because we're working with clients all over the country and all over the world
So we can't just do musters all the time
So that's what we're doing to them if you want to come sign up all the four of them
We that we've had so far have also now these are going to sell out to a hundred percent
so if you want to come you got to go and
Register to attend
Extreme ownership dot com can I reserve two spots right now in Washington? Yes, you can all right cool cool
Until then
Until the muster if you have questions or answers for us or you just want to check in and share your wins
I noticed people do that now on social media and share the wins. Yeah, it's good. I got this promotion I
Overcame this little situation. They give a little brief on a situation here had this guy
There was acting wrong. I took ownership and boom problem solved. I lost weight
I gained weight. I got a stripe on my white belt in jujitsu and I'm proud. Yeah, and I'm proud
Yeah, I'm stoked when you get that stripe on the white belt or the blue belt sometimes people get the black belt the brown belt
But what we see is progression yeah, like I said people lose weight people gain weight people stay clean
People stay off the sauce people stay off the drugs people stay on the path and if you want to check in with us
about that stuff
You can do it on Twitter
on Instagram and on that
Fashible hotchy boha
Jody is at jody midic j
O D Y M I T I C
Echo is at echo Charles and I am at
Joko Willink echo any closing thoughts
No, thank you for coming on and it's great to see you again YouTube room
Mr. Jody midic you got anything else joko thank you for giving me the mic bag for five minutes
I'm just kidding. I just want to say thanks to you
for bringing me on today
I know you did this because you didn't have to because you wanted to and I appreciate that and I needed this
Echo as always you should stop drinking by the way
I'm now that I'm a form drinker. That's the that's the that's the antitabrient
Just stop drinking surprisingly it's a big answer. It's a good idea
I agree with you know if you look at that study that comes out I forget who does it
I think it's the you win the most destructive force on earth is alcohol above coke heroin
Speed crack at all put together booze is still ten times worse like did like when it comes because it's available to everybody right
Yeah, I should thank everybody that's been with me through this you know sometimes you think you're alone and you're not
I've had friends and family that have not stopped
Basically you feel like they're bugging you but they're not they're keeping an eye on you
And all the supporters and the fans and and just the the jodimitic fans
Thank you for being there for me. Thank you for being honest with me and
Thank you to my friends and my family for putting up with me and
I fell off the path I lost my bearing pretty bad
But now I've reorientated the map and I'm back on track and
Give me
Give me some time the jodimitic podcast will be back up and running in short order give me six weeks
Ish and we should have be pumping out some episodes who know is maybe I'll fly jockel up to auto and we'll do an episode
I don't know the point is something will be coming and there's a few
Hard court. I'm talking granite hard fans that have like stuck it out and they send us at least a tweet a week to be like where are you bitches at
And we're coming back quick
Just real quick shout out my friends a tactile beaver if you want some of their stuff just go on tactical beaver. Yes, like the animal
You can get some of their gear. It's pretty cool
Canadian twist a Canadian flavor and if you're you know if you're the one guy in your unit that has it and you're not Canadian
You might be you might be popular for a minute, but
And you know and the last thing goes out to my kids
Ela and Kira
Ela's nine peanut curious six squeaky
They're waiting for me at home very patiently and
And with soon as daddy's home, we're gonna go to jiu-jitsu because daddy needs to learn to and I know you guys don't like it now
But when you're older you will appreciate it and for the rest of everybody else
We're gonna look in the camera for a minute. I go you can edit that in right sure
I know I've said sorry before I'll say it again and I think you I will say it over and over again for supporting me and
It's because of people like jocco and Rob who you'll meet who's a green beret and some other very special people my life that I am
Found a reason to get back to be myself and
And that's about it. That's all I can say. Thank you man. Awesome brother Will it's awesome
Having you back on again and you'll be coming back on again and again as you continue
Don't this
This is gender you're eventually I'll be better and I and we can just keep growing down and helping others
So good. Maybe my next book comes out. I will come back. That's awesome and so thanks for coming on
It's awesome to see you again and like I said we'll we'll keep doing this for the next 20 years and
Finally thanks to all the
Service men and women out there right now
Right now think about that right now right this moment in time
There's men and women out there on the front lines face to face with evil
So thanks to you all for protecting us and our freedoms
Into the police law enforcement firefighters paramedics and the rest of the first responders
Thanks for your service and your sacrifice to keep us safe here at home
And to everyone that's out there grinding
Working
Driving trucks pouring concrete hammering on a project building bridges or building software
Sewing some garments or sewing a field
Farmers
Factory workers engineers electricians plumbers and pilots and ground crew and cooks and
Weightresses to everyone out there working hard and listening to this and just trying to
Get yourself a little bit better
Today than you were yesterday
Thanks for listening and
As you
meet struggles
And as you struggle to stay on the path
First of all remember you don't have to fight alone reach out to your comrades in arms
Call for fire support when you need it we win the wars because we stick together and when we stick together
We can overcome any enemy
And the struggles that you face
When they when they do try to flank you
Do what jodied it do what a soldier does turn into the ambush turn toward the enemy fire
And attack
Until next time
This is jodied medic and echo and jocco out